 FORD , District Judge.
The Secretary of Labor, in his capacity as Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor, instituted this action to enjoin the appellants from violating the overtime and record-keeping provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 as amended, 29 U.S.C.A. 215(a) (1, 2, 5).
This appeal is from the judgment of the District Court granting the injunction.
Appellants are engaged in manufacturing automotive type wet storage batteries which they sell in interstate commerce.
In their manufacturing operations at their plant at Nashville, Tennessee, appellants regularly employ from thirty to forty workmen.
It is undisputed that the manufacturing process in which appellants' employees are engaged requires the use of various chemicals and chemical compounds, including sulphuric acid, lead metal, lead oxide, lead sulphate and lead peroxide, which create conditions which are dangerous to the health of the workers.
Before beginning their productive work in the morning, most of appellants' employees change from their street clothes into work clothes provided for them by the appellants, and when their productive labor is discontinued in the evening they remove the work clothes, take a shower bath and put on their street clothes.
The changing of clothes and showering are activities which take place at the plant, and the work clothes for such changing and facilities for such showering are provided by the appellants.
The only question presented for determination is whether the activities of the employees of appellants in changing clothes and taking shower baths at the plant, on account of the hazardous conditions inherent in the nature of their work, are so closely related to the duties which they are employed to perform as to constitute an integral part thereof and should be classed as "principal" rather than "preliminary" and "postliminary" activities within the meaning of Section 4(a) (2) of the Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947, 61 Stat. 84-87, 29 U.S.C.A. 254(a) (2), which is as follows: The use of the phrase "principal activity or activities" in the Statute suggests that the word "principal" in some situations, may apply to more than a single type of activity, but, in view of the great variety of industrial conditions and various types of industries throughout the nation, it was obviously not practicable for the area embraced by the words "principal activity or activities" to be precisely defined or marked out.
The scope or reach of the phrase was left to be measured by the facts and circumstances involved in each industry.
For aid in determining the intent and purpose of Congress in the use of the words "principal activity or activities", it seems appropriate to resort to the legislative history of the Act.
"When aid to construction of the meaning of words, as used in the statute, is available, there certainly can be no 'rule of law' which forbids its use, however clear the words may appear on 'superficial examination.'"
United States v. American Trucking Associations, Inc. , 310 U.S. 534, 543-544 , 60 S.Ct. 1059, 1064 , 84 L.Ed. 1345 ; Harrison v. Northern Trust Co. , 317 U.S. 476, 479 , 63 S.Ct. 361 , 87 L.Ed. 407 .
Schwegmann Bros. v. Calvert Corp. 341 U.S. 384, 394-395 71 S.Ct. 745, 750 95 L.Ed. 1035 In the Conference Report upon the Portal-to-Portal Act presented by Representative Gwynn in the House of Representatives (93 Cong.Rec.
4388) and by Senator Wiley in the Senate (93 Cong.Rec.
4371), it is said that the language of Section 4 of the Act, here in question, follows that of the Senate Bill.
In the Report of the Senate Committee it is stated that the term "principal activities" includes all activities which are an integral part of a principal activity, two examples of which are set out in the report.
In explaining the term "principal activities," Senator Cooper, one of the members of the Committee which reported the Senate Bill, and one of its sponsors, stated: Moreover "It is settled that 'subsequent legislation may be considered to assist in the interpretation of prior legislation upon the same subject.'"
Great Northern Ry. v. United States , 315 U.S. 262, 277 , 62 S.Ct. 529, 535 , 86 L.Ed. 836 ; Sarlls v. United States , 152 U.S. 570, 576 , 14 S.Ct. 720 , 38 L.Ed. 556 .
By the "Fair Labor Standards amendments of 1949," 63 Stat. 910-11, Congress added paragraph " o " to Section 3 of the Act as follows: o It is not difficult to perceive that this amendment was predicated upon recognition by Congress that, under some circumstances and conditions, changing clothes and washing may be part of compensable "principal activities."
It affords impressive confirmation of the interpretation of the Act in accordance with its above legislative history.
The authorities relied upon by appellants are not apposite to the questions here presented.
Newsom v. E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co. , 6 Cir., 173 F.2d 856 , and Lasater v. Hercules Powder Co. , 6 Cir., 171 F.2d 263 , both decided by this Court, arose under Section 2 of the Portal-to-Portal Act, 29 U.S.C.A. 252, and the questions therein presented and decided are not here pertinent.
None of the other cases cited dealt with activities made necessary by imminent dangers to the health of employees which arose out of and were inherent in the nature of the work for which they were employed.
Upon the evidence presented bearing upon the material issues, the District Court found the facts as follows: The major part of the testimony upon which the findings of the District Court rest consisted of a certified record of testimony taken at a hearing before the U. S. Department of Labor, supplemented by depositions, and on that account the findings of the District Court are deprived of the degree of finality which would otherwise attach under Rule 52, 28 U.S.C.A., Seagrave Corp. v. Mount , 6 Cir., 212 F.2d 389, 394 .
We are of the opinion, however, that the Court's findings are amply supported by the evidence and should not be disturbed.
That changing of clothes and taking of shower baths at the time and in the manner herein described are regular practices which are recognized as essential safeguards against the serious occupational hazards to which appellants' employees are daily subjected in the performance of their duties is sufficient to render them an integral and indispensable part of the principal activities which they are employed to perform, within the meaning of the Portal-to-Portal Act, and time spent in such activities is time worked within the meaning of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended.
The judgment of the District Court should be and is affirmed.
