 WILBUR K. MILLER , Circuit Judge.
Storer Broadcasting Company filed with the Federal Communications Commission August 31, 1953, an application for a new television station in Miami, Florida.
Storer was then already licensed to own and operate five standard broadcast and five frequency modulation broadcast stations, located in Atlanta, Detroit, Miami, Toledo and Wheeling; and three television stations, located in Atlanta, Detroit and Toledo.
Its wholly-owned subsidiaries were then licensed to own and operate standard broadcast and television stations in Birmingham and San Antonio.
In a proceeding initiated some years before by issuance of a notice of proposed rule making, in which Storer participated, the Commission entered an order November 25, 1953, promulgating amended "multiple ownership" rules, which are now 3.35, 3.240 and 3.636 of its Rules and Regulations.
On the same day the Commission dismissed Storer's application for a television station in Miami, without a hearing and without consideration on the merits, on the ground that its grant would be in violation of the spirit and purpose of the multiple ownership rules.
Storer petitions for review, asking that we declare unlawful and without force or effect the Commission's rule making order of November 25, 1953, together with the amended multiple ownership rules promulgated thereby, insofar as and to the extent that the order and rules The multiple ownership rules are challenged here only insofar as they impose an absolute limitation upon the number of standard, FM and television broadcast stations which may be owned, operated or controlled by a single individual or corporation.
The three rules under attack are similar except for the differing maximum numbers of stations which are permitted,--seven in standard, seven in FM, and five in television.
We quote as typical the television broadcast rule, 3.636 : Section 3.636 Multiple Ownership [**100] The Commission, however, will in any event consider that there would be such a concentration of control contrary to the public interest, convenience or necessity for any party or any of its stockholders, officers or directors to have a direct or indirect interest in, or be stockholders, officers, or directors of, more than five television broadcast stations Unequivocally, the foregoing rule declares that an application for a television broadcast station license filed by one who is already licensed for five such stations will be rejected; that the Commission will in any event consider that the addition of a sixth station would result in concentration of control contrary to the public interest, convenience or necessity.
This means, of course, that an application for a sixth television station will be denied without a hearing, just as Storer's application was rejected without a hearing and without any consideration of the question whether public interest, convenience or necessity would be served by the grant.
Section 309(a) of the Communications Act requires the Commission to grant an application for a station license if it finds, upon examination thereof, that public interest, convenience and necessity would be served by the granting thereof.
If the Commission is unable so to find, after examining an application, it is required by 309(b) of the Act to notify the applicant and other known parties in interest of the grounds and reasons for its inability to make such finding.
It is further provided that, if the Commission, after considering the applicant's reply to its notice, is still unable to make a favorable finding and so is unable to grant the application without a hearing, This is mandatory language.
The Supreme Court said in Ashbacker Radio Corp. v. F. C. C. , 1945, 326 U.S. 327, 330 , 66 S.Ct. 148, 149 , 90 L.Ed. 108 : 309(a) Again, 326 U.S. at page 333 , 66 S.Ct. at page 151 , the Court said: [**101] Moreover, the denial of a hearing granted by statute is a denial of due process of law.
L. B. Wilson, Inc., v. F. C. C. , 1948, 83 U.S.App.D.C.
176 , 170 F.2d 793 .
This does not mean, however, that any person who applies for any frequency at any location is entitled to a hearing before his application may be denied, for there are situations in which the Commission may reject an application without a hearing.
For example, if an applicant admits he is an alien, his application will be denied without a hearing because he is disqualified by statute; or, if he denies he is an alien but is found to be such after a hearing conducted on that issue, his application will be dismissed without further hearing.
If an application seeks a license for an unlawful use or purpose, it will be rejected without a hearing.
F. C. C. v. American Broadcasting Co. , 1954, 347 U.S. 284 , 74 S.Ct. 593 , 98 L.Ed. 699 .
Moreover, if an applicant applies for a certain frequency at a location to which that frequency has not been assigned, his application will be dismissed without a hearing as not conforming to the Commission's master plan--arrived at through one master hearing--for the allocation of television frequencies, under which at least one television channel has been assigned to each of over one thousand cities and towns throughout the nation.
The actual assignment of channels to operators is by application, but all applications for licenses not conforming to the overall plan are automatically dismissed.
This plan was upheld by us in Peoples Broadcasting Co. v. United States , 1953, 93 U.S.App.D.C.
78 , 209 F.2d 286 , and in Logansport Broadcasting Corp. v. United States , 1954, 93 U.S.App.D.C.
342 , 210 F.2d 24 .
In the latter case we said, 93 U.S.App.D.C.
at page 345 , 210 F.2d at page 27 : Sections 303 Securities and Exchange Commission v. Chenery Corporation 332 U.S. 194, 203 67 S.Ct. 1575, 1580, 1760 91 L.Ed. 1995 In the light of such exceptions to the apparently unqualified generality of 309(b) , the statutory provision means that any citizen who seeks a license for the lawful use of an available frequency has the undoubted right to a hearing before his application may be rejected.
1 The rule in question here is not a mere announcement that the Commission has adopted the policy of considering, in every case in which the owner of five television stations applies for an additional license, whether the grant thereof would result in such concentration of control as to be adverse to the public interest.
The rule goes further and says the Commission will "in any event" treat the numerical limit as the boundary of [**102] public interest, and will deny a hearing to the owner of five television stations upon his application for an additional station.
Thus the Commission freezes into a binding rule a limitation upon its consideration of the public interest in a respect in which the facts and circumstances may differ widely from case to case.
It has decided in vacuo that there can never be an instance in which public interest, convenience and necessity would be served by granting an additional license to one who is already licensed for five television stations.
The power so to decide has not been committed to the Commission.
2 It is conceivable that in some circumstances, common ownership of even five television stations, though permitted by the challenged rule, might be undue concentration of control; while in other circumstances, common ownership of a greater number might be compatible with the public interest.
But whether so or not must be determined on an ad hoc basis, after consideration of all factors relevant in the determination of whether the grant of a license would be within the comprehensive concept which the Act calls "the public convenience, interest, or necessity."
Cf. Scripps-Howard Radio, Inc., v. F. C. C. , 1951, 89 U.S.App.D.C.
13 , 189 F.2d 677 , as to the broad scope of the concept.
The selection of a certain number, such as five or seven, as a maximum beyond which no multiple owner will be permitted to go regardless of what he may be able to show in his own behalf, is not only inconsistent with but is contrary to the mandatory provisions of 309(b) of the Act and, with respect to the applicants described in the rule, would in effect repeal or nullify that important section.
The Commission argues that the challenged rules 3 carry out its established policy of encouraging as many qualified persons as possible to seek broadcast licenses, as the public interest requires maximum diversification of program and service viewpoints; and that they also carry out the general policy of favoring competition which Congress wrote into the Communications Act.
The multiple ownership rules are, the Commission says, "therefore a formulation of Commission policy in the licensing of stations, which is based in part upon enunciated Congressional policy applicable to radio broadcasting."
We are not here concerned with the Commission's policy in passing upon applications.
We are concerned with what purports to be a binding rule.
However laudable its policies may be, we have seen that the Commission is bound by its own statute and by the requirements of due process to grant a full hearing before denying an application for an available frequency sought by a citizen for a lawful use.
We hold invalid the portion of 3.636 of the Commission's [**103] Rules which we italicized in quoting it at length earlier in this opinion, and direct that it be eliminated therefrom.
This holding will not prevent the Commission from considering in each case, in accordance with its announced policy, the question whether granting an additional license to one who is already a multiple owner would place too much control in one licensee, contrary to the public interest.
But the multiple owner applicant must be given a chance in a hearing to show, if he can, that still another station will not give him such control of communications media as to prejudice the interests of the public.
This proceeding, being on petition for review of the rule making order of November 25, 1953, filed under 402(a) of the Act, does not bring before us the order of the same date which denied the application of Storer Broadcasting Company for a television station license at Miami--which order was appealable under 402(b) .
But, in view of our holding here, the Commission probably will sua sponte set aside the order of denial and grant Storer a hearing.
Challenged rule modified and case remanded.
