 FINNEGAN , Circuit Judge.
Hawkeye-Security Insurance Company, defendant here, is an Iowa insurance company with its principal office at Des Moines.
It is not licensed in the State of Wisconsin.
Francis Meehan, not a party to this lawsuit applied to his cousin Cyril Wiedner, May 7, 1951, as one of Hawkeye's agents for automobile liability insurance on his (Meehan's) Chevrolet.
Wiedner and Meehan were Iowa residents and the vehicle was then stored at Meehan's home in Iowa. Just prior to that application Meehan entered military service, and told Wiedner that he (Meehan) planned taking his Chevrolet to his assignment at Chanute Air Force Base, near Rantoul, Illinois.
When Meehan was a civilian Hawkeye had written coverage, but that policy expired.
"The Hawkeye agent (Wiedner) told Meehan that the Company was not anxious to write automobile liability policies for servicemen, but he felt the Company would accept Meehan again if he agreed that the insurance should not be in effect when the car was driven by another serviceman unless Meehan was also in the car."
1 Hawkeye was licensed to do business in Illinois, where it maintained a claims office, and applied its Illinois premium rate to the policy in issue.
Wiedner personally recommended Meehan as an "A-1" risk to defendant.
Meehan signed the following typewritten statement, dated May 7, 1951, prepared on a form captioned "Wiedner Agency:" Without that foregoing assent Wiedner could not recommend Meehan because Hawkeye's underwriters concluded that the lending of cars by and to fellow servicemen entailed additional hazards.
Consequently, in the opinion of defendant's underwriters, this endorsement (Exhibit 3) equalized the risk to the civilian rate: "Special Endorsement other than After Wiedner forwarded Meehan's application, accompanied by the aforesaid assent, defendant issued a policy of automobile liability insurance consisting of three parts: (i) Policy No. A33603, (ii) Declarations and, (iii) the foregoing Special Endorsement.
These documents were forwarded by Hawkeye to its agent Wiedner, who executed that part of the policy captioned "Declarations," but did not sign the "Special Endorsement."
However, that endorsement was signed by defendant's president.
Meehan received these three documents at Rantoul, Illinois from Wiedner.
When anybody asked Meehan for the use of his automobile he would tell them " it wasn't covered, that there was a restrictive endorsement on the policy, and that (he) didn't want them to drive it."
2 Meehan and another serviceman, Gelhar, stationed at Chanute Air Force Base, agreed to the joint purchase of a 1949 Pontiac from a Rantoul automobile dealer on July 9, 1951.
Meehan and Gelhar further agreed to and did share equally all expenses in maintaining, operating and insuring the Pontiac, including the premium on the liability policy underlying this appeal.
"They owned the car jointly though title was placed in Meehan's name alone because Gelhar was then only twenty years of age."
3 The next day Meehan wrote 4 his cousin, Hawkeye's agent in Waukon, Iowa, advising him that the Pontiac had been purchased and specifically inquiring: "Say how about making new policy so another kid can drive it besides myself.
He has an interest in the car.
His name is Francis R. Gelhar, also an instructor in Electrics Branch here at the base."
This communication allegedly evoked the following reconstructed letter, July 12, 1951, from Wiedner: 5 We qualify that letter marked (Exhibit 34) because in finding of fact numbered 7, the district judge stated: But it does appear from Exhibit 35 that on July 11, 1951 Wiedner sent a request for endorsement to Hawkeye, viz.
: "Please endorse for following car; 49 Pontiac Sedan Coupe M #P6 RH11615 Model 6R List H, possession 7/10/51, used *" This was received by Hawkeye at Des Moines, 8:50 A. M., Monday, July 16 and a Change of Car Endorsement (Exhibit 4), effective July 11, 1951, was forwarded to Wiedner, who countersigned it July 17, 1951.
This endorsement, for Meehan's policy A33603, clearly described the Pontiac and was transmitted by Wiedner to Meehan.
No further correspondence between Meehan and Wiedner appears of record.
In September, 1951 Gelhar on furlough took the Pontiac to his home near Wausau, Wisconsin, and Meehan remained at the Air Force Base.
On September 27, 1951, while operating the Pontiac, Gelhar was involved in a collision with another automobile, as a result of which actions were commenced against him by several persons injured in that episode.
When defense of these tort claims were tendered to Hawkeye it declined on the ground that Gelhar was excluded from coverage under the policy's terms.
Judgments against Gelhar totalled $45,619.03 in addition to which he incurred $2,490.22 for attorneys' fees.
Grounding their complaint on these judgments in tort, and diversity of citizenship, Gelhar and the injured persons filed suit, August 26, 1953, against Hawkeye in the United States District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin.
After denying, on October 8, 1953, defendant's motion to: (i) quash the return of service and, (ii) dismiss the action, the district court proceeded to hear the merits, without a jury.
Plaintiffs amended their complaint and defendant filed a counterclaim.
Then the proceedings below culminated in judgments against Hawkeye and Gelhar for $20,595.69 and $1,415.93, respectively.
Hawkeye asks us to review the district judge's refusal to quash service and dismiss this action and has also appealed the foregoing money judgment.
Findings of fact and conclusions of law were made by the trial judge.
One other aspect of the proceedings below requires notice.
Plaintiffs and defendant, through their attorneys, executed a stipulation for judgment on the claim of Ruth Petrowski, wife of John M. Petrowski, a plaintiff, under which it was agreed that Ruth's claim was valued at $12,500.
That stipulation is shortly explained by its paragraph numbered 3 (T.R.
43): res judicata Paragraph one, of that stipulation, on which a separate judgment was entered in favor of Ruth Petrowski against Francis Gelhar in the sum of $12,500, provides: As part of its counterclaim, defendant sought to restrain certain plaintiffs from instituting any other actions against Hawkeye or Gelhar.
Moreover, Hawkeye prayed for a declaration that none of the plaintiffs were entitled to recover under the policy.
Looking at all the findings of fact and conclusions of law filed below, we are compelled to conclude that the district court interpreted defendant's resolution and power of attorney as leaving Hawkeye amenable and vulnerable to process whatever were the jurisdictional facts.
Having decided that Hawkeye was within the court's jurisdiction all that remained was to invalidate the restrictive endorsement on the grounds that Hawkeye had also assented that its policies "are varied to comply with the" laws of Wisconsin, where such endorsements are prohibited.
But a preliminary jurisdictional question, inextricably woven into other aspects of the case, crystallized by defendant's motion to quash the process confronts us.
Hawkeye filed a resolution, with the proper Wisconsin officials, authorizing its appropriate officers to execute a power of attorney constituting and appointing the Commissioner of Motor Vehicle Department of the State of Wisconsin its attorney in that State "to accept service on its behalf of notice or process in any action arising out of a (prior) (subsequent) motor vehicle accident in the State of Wisconsin under 85.09 of the Wisconsin Statutes."
6 Two other clauses in that resolution warrant quotation: wherein a certificate is filed shall be deemed to be varied to comply with the laws of Wisconsin Pursuant to that duly authenticated resolution, the following power of attorney was filed with the Wisconsin authorities prior to the date of Gelhar's accident: "State of Wisconsin Motor Vehicle Department Madison, Wisconsin Power of Attorney Under 85.09 List of states and countries where licensed.
H AWKEYE -S ECURITY I NSURANCE C OMPANY , P AUL R ISHER , Signature (S EAL ) Vice President Title or Office K. L. C RITTENDEN , Signature Secretary Title or Office Notary Public There is no dispute concerning either the authenticity or filing of the foregoing documents, but there is presented a question of interpretation.
For despite what first appears as clear language appointing the Wisconsin Commissioner as attorney to accept service, Hawkeye interposed a motion to quash the process by which the instant proceeding was commenced.
Hawkeye, in substance, asserted that: (i) the district court had no jurisdiction over the defendant, and (ii) "such defendant has not been properly served with process in this action since the defendant is an Iowa corporation and was not and is not subject to the service of process within the Western District of Wisconsin except pursuant to a Power of Attorney filed with the Commissioner of the Motor Vehicle Department of the State of Wisconsin that such Power of Attorney does not authorize the Commissioner to accept process for the defendant in the above entitled action."
After setting out the pertinent portions of defendant's power of attorney, the district judge made these findings: 7 This is an appropriate juncture to recapitulate several significant facts readily established by our canvass of the record: Hawkeye refrained from certifying its policy under Wisconsin Safety and Financial Responsibility Law because the company contends that Gelhar's operation of the Pontiac was an excluded risk.
Its resolution, already quoted, provides inter alia " in all cases wherein a certificate is filed the insurance policy, declared by said certificate , shall be deemed to be varied to comply with the laws of Wisconsin *."
Clearly without such a certificate having been filed policy A33603 could not be varied to comply with Wisconsin laws so as to strike down the restrictive endorsement.
We think the resolution and power of attorney must be read together since defendant's Board of Directors authorized only that which their resolution embodies.
But we say that resolution and power of attorney are without vitality until such time as the carrier activates them with a certificate of insurance.
Wis.Stats.1953, 85.09(17) et seq., and 85.09(20).
Or, it might be also said that policy A33603 did not become a motor vehicle liability policy since it had never been certified as proof of financial responsibility under Wisconsin statutes.
Hill v. Standard Mutual Casualty Co. , 7 Cir., 1940, 110 F.2d 1001 ; State Comp. Ins.
Fund v. Bankers Indemnity Ins. Co. , 9 Cir., 1939, 106 F.2d 368 .
The substituted service was ineffective because Hawkeye's certificate is a jurisdictional element in this instance.
Section 85.09 of Wisconsin Statutes 1953 embraces two captions, i. e., "Safety Responsibility Law" 85.09(5) to (16) (c) and "Financial Responsibility Law" 85.09(17) to (31m).
However, plaintiffs in this complaint spelled out contents of 321A, Iowa Code 1950, I.C.A., concerning the Iowa Financial Responsibility Law--these provisions are counterparts of the Wisconsin statute.
As we read the Wisconsin statute it appears that their thrust strikes at owners and operators of vehicles.
A driver, holding a policy with a non-licensed insurance company can protect himself from the impact of either Safety or Financial Responsibility Law provisions only if his out-of-state insurer qualifies and certifies under those legislative clauses.
Yet we find nothing in 85.09 conferring jurisdiction over defendant, by substituted service in the absence of a certification of policy A33603.
Hawkeye's resolution and power of attorney contains no mention of any specific policy much less any itemization of the one involved.
Morris & Co. v. Skandinavia Ins. Co. , 1929, 279 U.S. 405 , 49 S.Ct. 360 , 73 L. Ed. 762 ; General American Life Ins. Co. v. Carter , 1944, 222 Ind. 557 , 54 N.E.2d 944 .
Of course, Hawkeye's non-certification stems from its position that the automobile driven by Gelhar was not covered by policy A33603 since there was a specific provision that the policy "shall be of no force or effect while the described automobile is being operated by any member of the Armed Forces"--viz., Gelhar.
But jurisdiction cannot be obtained over Hawkeye by merely invalidating that restrictive endorsement.
Without certification of policy A33603, by Hawkeye, its power of attorney alone, was insufficient and dormant, and this state of affairs nullified substituted service on the Wisconsin Commissioner.
For these reasons Hawkeye was not within the jurisdiction of the district court and it was error to overrule defendant's motion to quash the process.
In its answer, we note in passing, Hawkeye expressly denied that its power of attorney appointed the Commissioner as its agent for the service of process in any and all instances.
Our holding here pivots on the jurisdictional question.
Nothing in Watson v. Employers Liability Assur.
Corp. , 1954, 348 U.S. 66 , 75 S.Ct. 166 , freely cited by plaintiffs, collides with the views expressed in this case. For there the Louisiana code provisions were applicable to all insurance contracts.
Section 204.30 (3), Wisconsin Statutes 1953, relied upon by plaintiffs, is delimited by these words: "No such policy shall be issued or delivered in this state *."
Moreover, Olander v. Klapprote , 1953, 263 Wis. 463 , 57 N.W.2d 734, 735 , and Schneider v. Depies , 1954, 266 Wis. 43 , 62 N.W.2d 431 , are, accordingly, inapplicable to the issues before us though they hold that section 204.30(3) "denies to the insurer the right to exclude from its policy provisions of indemnity to the person responsible for the operation of the automobile."
Policy A33603 was neither issued nor delivered in Wisconsin.
Various points asserted by plaintiffs in this appeal are simply facets of a basic attempt to attack jurisdiction and once argued then, quite understandably plaintiffs attempt to eradicate the restrictive endorsement.
But this circular reasoning fails to supply the requisite certificate of insurance.
So tenuous are plaintiffs' contentions resting on waiver and estoppel that a detailed disposition of them is unnecessary.
Since our decision hinges upon lack of jurisdiction there is no need to discuss other points urged by plaintiffs.
The judgments and orders appealed, and this cause, is reversed and remanded to the District Court with directions to sustain defendant's motion to quash the return of service of summons on it and to dismiss the action filed against Hawkeye-Security Insurance Company.
Reversed and remanded with directions.
