 PARKER , Chief Judge.
This is a petition to enforce an order of the National Labor Relations Board which found the Truitt Manufacturing Company guilty of an unfair labor practice in refusing to bargain with a union representing its employees in that, although bargaining with respect to all matters as to which it was asked to bargain, the company refused a request of the union that it allow an accountant to examine its books and records for the purpose of ascertaining whether it was financially able to grant the wage increase demanded by the union.
The Board held that because the company had represented in the course of bargaining negotiations that it was not able to pay the wage increase demanded, a refusal to comply with the request of the union amounted to a refusal to bargain in good faith.
The company contends that it bargained in good faith, and that it was not required to disclose to the union, as an incident of such bargaining, the books and records showing its financial condition and involving confidential matters such as manufacturing cost which it would be harmful to its business to make public.
We think that the position of the company is correct and that it may not be held guilty of an unfair labor practice because of refusal to furnish such information to the union or to allow its books and records to be examined at the union's request.
The facts are that the company had duly recognized the union as the bargaining representative of its employees and had been bargaining with it for a period of three years.
In the summer of 1953, the union made demand for a 10 cents per hour increase in wages and representatives of the union and the company met and negotiated with respect to the matter.
The company offered a 2½ cents per hour increase and the union called a strike which lasted for a week.
After the strike was ended the union renewed its demand for the 10 cents increase, and the company again refused to accede to the demand but granted a 2½ cents raise, which was put into effect.
During the course of these negotiations, the company made statements on a number of occasions to the effect that it could not afford a 10 cents increase, that it was paying wages as high or higher than competitors and that it had lost contracts to lower bidders because of bids based on the wages that it was paying.
The union asked to see its books and records in substantiation of these statements.
The company offered to produce all records relating to bids and wages paid but refused to permit examination of its books and records with respect to other matters.
The letters of the union making the first demand was a letter of September 2, 1953, which contained the following paragraph: Counsel for the company in a letter of September 4, 1953, said in answer to this: In reply to this letter the union under date of September 14, 1953, wrote a letter repeating its demand in the following language: It was failure to comply with these demands which the Trial Examiner and the Board held to be refusal to bargain in good faith.
The basis of the conclusion by the Examiner was stated by him as follows: "An employer cannot refuse a demanded wage increase on the grounds that such increase would put him out of a competitive position, even though he were paying the prevailing area wage scale, unless he factually documents this conclusion."
The Board refused to adopt this holding of the Trial Examiner but held that: "When an employer seeks to justify the refusal of a wage increase upon an economic basis, as did the Respondent herein, good faith bargaining under the Act requires that upon request the employer attempt to substantiate its economic position by reasonable proof."
The Board was, of course, clearly right in rejecting the holding of the Trial Examiner.
We think it equally clear that the Board was wrong in holding that good faith bargaining under the act requires that an employer substantiate its economic position by submitting its books for examination by the union with which it is bargaining.
One of the first decisions upholding the statutory requirement of collective bargaining was the decision of this court in Virginian Ry. Co. v. System Federation No. 40 , 4 Cir., 84 F.2d 641, 646 , affirmed 300 U.S. 515 , 57 S.Ct. 592 , 81 L.Ed. 789 .
In upholding a mandatory injunction requiring the parties to bargain collectively under the terms of the Railway Labor Act, we said: 45 U.S.C.A. 152 And we upheld the validity of the requirement, which was attacked under the Fifth Amendment , on the ground that what was required was negotiation, not agreement.
With respect to this, we said: Texas & N. O. R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Railway & S. S. Clerks 281 U.S. 548 50 S.Ct. 427 74 L.Ed. 1034 That the National Labor Relations Act, 29 U.S.C.A. 141 et seq., did not require agreement but merely good faith bargaining was elaborated by this court with a discussion of what was meant by good faith bargaining in the latter decision of N. L. R. B. v. Highland Park Mfg. Co. , 4 Cir., 110 F.2d 632, 637 , where we quoted with approval an opinion of Judge Sibley in the Fifth Circuit dealing with the matter.
We said: Consolidated Edison Co. [of New York] v. National Labor Relations Board 305 U.S. 197, 236 59 S.Ct. 206, 220 83 L.Ed. 126 National Labor Relations Board v. Sands Mfg. Co. 306 U.S. 332, 342 59 S.Ct. 508, 513 83 L.Ed. 682 Globe Cotton Mills v. National Labor Relations Board 103 F.2d 91, 94 What was implicit in these opinions was expressly set forth in the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, 8 (d) 29 U.S.C.A. 158(d) of which provides: The statute requires good faith bargaining with respect to wages and other matters affecting the terms and conditions of employment, not with respect to matters which lie within the province of management, such as the financial condition of the company, its manufacturing costs or the payment of dividends.
And we do not think that merely because the company has objected to a proposed wage rate on the ground that it cannot afford to pay it, good faith bargaining requires it to open up its books to the union in an effort to sustain the ground that it has taken.
If such were held to be the law, demand for examination of books could be used as a club to force employers to agree to an unjustified wage rate rather than disclose their financial condition with such confidential matters as manufacturing costs, which could conceivably be used to their great damage.
To bargain in good faith does not mean that the bargainor must substantiate by proof statements made by him in the course of the bargaining.
It means merely that he bargain with a sincere desire to reach an agreement.
There can be no question but that the company here was bargaining in that spirit.
It is to be noted that the statute expressly provides that neither party is under obligation to make any "concession" in connection with the bargaining; but, if the position of the Board here is sustained, it will result that every employer who resists a wage increase on economic grounds must make the concession of opening up his books and disclosing to the union not only his general financial condition, but such highly confidential matters as manufacturing costs.
We feel sure that it was never intended that the employer be required to disclose such information to its employees as an incident of collective bargaining; and we feel equally sure that Congress never would have passed a statute which it thought could have been given such interpretation.
It might be appropriate to require the furnishing of such information to a labor court with power to fix wages, but not to those who are bargaining at arm's length and who would be under no obligation to act upon the information if received.
There is nothing in our decision in N. L. R. B. v. Whitin Machine Works , 4 Cir., 217 F.2d 593 which supports the order of the Board.
That case had to do with furnishing information as to wages paid the employees, information which the company here offered to furnish, not with dividends, manufacturing costs or the general financial condition of the employer.
The information there required to be furnished related to matters with which bargaining was properly concerned.
The information here asked relates to matters altogether in the province of management, which were not the proper subject of bargaining.
The decision of the Court of Appeals of the 2nd Circuit in N. L. R. B. v. Yawman & Erbe Mfg. Co. , 2 Cir., 187 F.2d 947 is distinguishable on the same ground.
The Board relies particularly on the decision of the 2nd Circuit in N. L. R. B. v. Jacobs Mfg. Co. , 2 Cir., 196 F.2d 680, 684 .
In that case, however, it appears that the employer had refused to meet and negotiate with the union, after an initial meeting at which it had stated that it could not afford a wage raise and did not consider certain other matters subject to change under the collective bargaining agreement then in effect.
The unfair labor practice there consisted in the refusal to bargain at all, and the order of the Board was entered to redress that practice.
It is to be noted that, even as an order redressing what was unquestionably an unfair practice in refusing to bargain, it did not go so far as the demand made by the union here.
The opinion in that case states that "the Board's order does not require the respondent to produce any specific business books and records but information to 'substantiate' its position in 'bargaining with the Union.'"
The opinion seems to say that, in the absence of refusal to bargain such as was there involved, there is no obligation on the part of the employer to substantiate by its record the position it has taken, for it contains the categorical statement: "To bargain collectively in compliance with the statute does not mean that an employer must produce proof to establish that he is right in his business decision as to what he can, or cannot, afford to do."
If other language in the opinion seems to support the position here taken by the Board, we cannot accept it as a correct statement of the law.
Our conclusion is that failure to comply with the demand to furnish to the bargaining union the information here demanded did not establish bad faith in the bargaining, in which the employer here was admittedly engaged, and that there was no basis for the Board's finding of an unfair labor practice.
The petition for enforcement must accordingly be denied and the order of the Board set aside.
Enforcement denied and order set aside.
