 PARKER , Chief Judge.
This is an appeal in a criminal case by a defendant who has been convicted of violation of section 2 of the Smith Act of June 28, 1940, 54 Stat. 670, 671, 18 U.S.C.A. 2385.
That section, as brought forward in the United States Code, is as follows: The indictment, which was returned on November 18, 1954, charged that the Communist Party of the United States of America has at all times been "a society, group and assembly of persons who teach and advocate the overthrow and destruction of the Government of the United States by force and violence as speedily as circumstances would permit" and that the defendant Scales "had been a member of said Communist Party from January 1946 up to the filing of the indictment well knowing during all of said period that said Communist Party of the United States of America was and is a society, group, and assembly of persons who teach and advocate the overthrow and destruction of the Government of the United States by force and violence as speedily as circumstances would permit, and said defendant intending to bring about such overthrow by force and violence as speedily as circumstances would permit."
The evidence in the record amply sustained the charge in the indictment.
There was evidence, similar to that in United States v. Dennis , 2 Cir., 183 F.2d 201 ; Dennis v. United States , 341 U.S. 494 , 71 S.Ct. 857 , 95 L.Ed. 1137 , and Frankfeld v. United States , 4 Cir., 198 F.2d 679 , to the effect that the Communist Party advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force and violence.
It was admitted that defendant Scales was a member of the party during the period covered by the indictment and was chairman of the North and South Carolina District of the party; and there was ample evidence that he knew of its purpose to overthrow the government by force and violence, that he approved of that purpose and that he had so expressed himself to witnesses who testified on the trial.
The case was submitted to the jury in a charge which clearly excluded any possibility of "guilt by association".
The jury was expressly instructed that, before there could be a conviction of defendant, four things must be proved beyond a reasonable doubt: (1) That the Communist Party of the United States was a group teaching or advocating the destruction or overthrow of the Government of the United States by force and violence, (2) that the defendant was a member of the party, (3) that, while a member of the party, he well knew of its teachings and purposes and (4) that he himself intended to bring about the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force and violence.
In addition to this the trial judge carefully explained that the defendant could not be convicted merely because he was a member of the Communist Party but only upon a finding that he knew of and participated in the purpose of the party to overthrow the government by force and violence, saying: The principal contentions of defendant upon this appeal are: (1) that the act under which he is indicted is unconstitutional and void; (2) that prosecution of the offense charged is barred by section 4(f) of the Internal Security Act, 50 U.S.C.A. 783(f); and (3) that the court erred in admitting and allowing the jury to consider evidence tending to show the purpose of the Communist Party to overthrow the government by force and violence, where such evidence did not consist of statements made by defendant or in his presence or related to matters occurring prior to the three year limitation period preceding the finding of the bill of indictment.
Other points of minor importance are raised relating to the regularity and fairness of the trial which have been duly considered and which will be referred to after we have dealt with these three principal questions.
1.
The Constitutionality of the Statute.
The portion of the statute here applicable is the third paragraph of section 2385 of Title 18 of the United States Code Annotated, quoted above, relating to membership in a group advocating the overthrow of the government by force and violence by one who becomes or remains a member thereof knowing of its criminal purposes.
In the light of the decisions in the Dennis and Frankfeld cases, supra , we think there can be no doubt as to the constitutionality of this provision of the statute.
It is said that those cases related to conspiracy; but the conspiracy charged was conspiracy to violate the statute and the validity of its provisions was necessarily involved and was expressly passed upon in the light of the same arguments relating to "guilt by association" and "'clear and present danger'" that are made here.
In the Frankfeld case, 198 F.2d at pages 683-684 , we said: The membership clause of the statute is, of course, nothing more nor less than a statute denouncing and making criminal a conspiracy to overthrow the government by force and violence.
It is elementary that a conspiracy is a parnership in criminal purposes and that all are guilty who join it with knowledge of such purposes; and all that the statute does is apply this fundamental concept of conspiracy to an organization having for its purpose the forcible overthrow of the government.
This was considered in the Frankfeld case, 198 F.2d 689 , where we said: "If it be argued that the crime defined by section 2(3) is in essence the crime of conspiracy, the position of the defendants is not helped; for the result would be merely that such conspiracy is thus made criminal by two sections of the act."
As the effect of the membership clause is to define as well as make criminal a conspiracy to overthrow the government, all that was said in the Dennis and Frankfeld cases as to the validity of the statute is pertinent here.
In the Frankfeld case, 198 F.2d 682 , we said: In the Dennis case [ 341 U.S. 494 , 71 S.Ct. 867 ], the late Chief Justice Vinson, speaking for the Supreme Court, answered in the following language the argument that the statute must be held invalid in application of the "'clear and present danger'" rule: Pinkerton v. United States 328 U.S. 640 66 S.Ct. 1180 90 L.Ed. 1489 Goldman v. United States 245 U.S. 474 38 S.Ct. 166 62 L.Ed. 410 United States v. Rabinowich 238 U.S. 78 35 S.Ct. 682 59 L.Ed. 1211 In his concurring opinion in the Dennis case, the late Mr. Justice Jackson pithily observed: "Guilt by association" is not punished by the statute; for knowledge of the criminal purpose of the organization is made a condition of guilt in joining it.
The "'clear and present danger'" rule has no application to the statute, since what the statute denounces is a conspiracy to overthrow the government by violence; and Congress may unquestionably forbid incitement to crime and organization for that purpose and may make such organization criminal, irrespective of the immediacy of the danger resulting from such organization.
2.
Effect of the Internal Security Act.
Defendant relies upon section 4 (f) of the Internal Security Act otherwise known as the Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950, 64 Stat. 987, 991, 50 U.S.C.A. 783(f), which provides: "Neither the holding of office nor membership in any Communist organization by any person shall constitute per se a violation of subsection (a) or subsection (c) of this section or of any other criminal statute."
The purpose of this provision, as defendant correctly argues, was to insure the enforceability of the registration provisions of the act by making the privilege against self incrimination unavailable as a defense to failure to register.
The language of the section relied on, however, provides merely that neither holding of office nor membership in a Communist organization shall constitute per se a violation of a criminal statute.
It does not purport to exempt from criminal liability membership in an organization advocating the overthrow of the government by force and violence where such membership is acquired or held with knowledge of the criminal purpose in which the organization is engaged.
In other words, mere membership in the party is not a crime.
Membership with knowledge of the criminal purpose of the organization remains a crime.
Whether the effect of the language used is to make the privilege against self incrimination unavailable to those who fail to register as required by the act, we need not stop to inquire.
It is clear that the language used does not exempt from criminal prosecution members of the Communist party who hold membership in the organization with guilty knowledge of its criminal purpose to bring about the violent overthrow of the government.
Even though the Communist Party has such purpose, membership per se is not made a crime under the Smith Act; and it is only membership per se, which is exempted from criminal prosecution under section 4(f) of the Internal Security Act.
That no modification of the provisions of the Smith Act was intended by Congress in the passage of the Internal Security Act of 1950 is made abundantly clear by section 17 of the Internal Security Act, 64 Stat. 1003, 50 U.S.C.A. 796, which provides: "The foregoing provisions of this title shall be construed as being in addition to and not in modification of existing criminal statutes".
In view of this interpretation which Congress itself placed on the statute at the time of its passage, there is no occasion for further discussion as to its effect upon the Smith Act.
The charge of the court, heretofore quoted, made it clear that defendant could not be convicted because of mere membership in the party.
3.
The Evidentiary Questions.
Defendant complains that the trial judge admitted and allowed the jury to consider evidence relating to the aims and purposes of the Communist Party by documents and teachings with which he was not connected, that some of this related to aims and purposes other than the use of force and violence and that a considerable part of it related to publications and teachings prior to the three year limitation period preceding the finding of the indictment.
We think that this complaint is entirely without merit.
The evidence as to the teachings carried on by the party and the documents used in the teaching was clearly competent to show the aims and purposes of the party; that which related to infiltration, subversion and the arousing of dissension had a direct bearing on the purpose to overthrow the government by force and violence when a favorable opportunity should present itself; and the fact that some of the evidence related to the period preceding the limitation period was no objection to its admissibility, since there was no evidence of any change in the aims and purposes of the party in the meantime and the evidence introduced clearly indicated that there had been no such change.
Of course, the defendant could not be convicted unless he was shown to have had knowledge of its aims and purposes and the jury was clearly so instructed; but there was ample evidence to establish such knowledge on his part.
Aside from the fact that he was chairman of the party in North and South Carolina and on account of his position is reasonably presumed to have known its aims and purposes, there is direct evidence that he did have such knowledge.
Thus, in a conversation with the witness Clontz, when Clontz, after reading the communist literature advocating revolution which defendant had furnished him, inquired whether communism could not be brought to the people of the United States through a process of education, defendant replied in the negative and said that the use of force was the only answer.
Clontz' testimony with respect to this conversation is as follows: In a later conversation with Clontz on the subject of what aid could be expected from the Soviet Union in case of revolution, defendant said, according to Clontz' testimony: Defendant did not take the stand to deny either of these statements or to testify to any change of views on his part.
Standing uncontradicted, they clearly established knowledge by defendant of the unlawful purposes of the party within the limitation period as well as prior thereto, since the running of the statute of limitations cannot empty a man's mind of knowledge of this sort.
When defendant remained chairman of the party in the North and South Carolina district during the limitation period, he did so with clear knowledge of its purposes, as revealed in these conversations.
Added to this is the testimony of Clontz that in December 1951, within the limitation period defendant informed him that he, the defendant, was going "underground" and that, on the orders of the party, Clontz was not to use the telephone, the telegraph or the mails in communication with him.
It was not necessary to his guilt that the defendant take part in the teaching or have a hand in the preparation of the documents of the Communist Party or even that he be shown to be familiar with the documents.
All that it was necessary to show was that the party did advocate the overthrow of the government by force and violence and that he became or remained a member during the period not barred by the statute of limitations with knowledge of that unlawful purpose.
The evidence objected to on the ground that it was res inter alios acta was clearly competent to establish the unlawful aims and purpose of the party.
With respect to that which showed knowledge prior to the statute of limitations, this was clearly competent as scienter and intent were elements of the offense.
See United States v. Mesarosh 3 Cir., 223 F.2d 449 ; United States v. Schneiderman , D.C., 106 F.Supp.
892, 897 .
There can be no question but that the evidence objected to is competent in a conspiracy case. See United States v. Flynn , 2 Cir., 216 F.2d 354 ; Short v. United States , 4 Cir., 91 F.2d 614, 618 ; Comeriato v. United States , 4 Cir., 58 F.2d 557, 558 .
And as pointed out above, a charge under the membership clause of the Smith Act is a charge of conspiracy.
There is no magic in the use of the word "conspiracy" or "conspire"; and to charge that defendant became or remained a member of an organization advocating the forcible overthrow of the government is to charge that he became a party to an unlawful conspiracy for the purpose and makes applicable the rules relating to proof of guilt in joining a conspiracy.
4.
Other Contentions.
Other contentions of defendant may be dealt with briefly.
The contention that the evidence was not sufficient to sustain the verdict is manifestly so lacking in merit, in view of what has been said, as not to warrant further discussion.
The requested prayers for instruction were properly declined as the law was fully covered in the court's charge in a light as favorable to the defendant as could possibly have been given, and the requested instructions would have served no purpose except to confuse the jury.
The government's summation did not exceed the comment that is reasonably to be expected in jury arguments and the trial judge expressly instructed the jury that "the statements and arguments of the attorneys do not constitute evidence in the case." It is elementary that whether a mistrial shall be declared because of arguments of counsel is a matter resting in the sound discretion of the trial judge; and, certainly, there was no evidence of any abuse of discretion here.
The defendant's challenge to the grand jury on the ground that the clerk of the court and the jury commissioner had delegated their functions to others is without merit.
The fact that they asked leaders of various organizations to furnish them with names of persons qualified to serve as jurors is unimportant so long as they themselves made the decision as to what names should go in the box.
There is nothing to indicate that the persons whose names were placed in the jury box did not represent a fair cross section of the community or that defendant was prejudiced in any way by the method of selection.
The questions propounded by the judge to the trial jury on the voir dire were sufficient for the selection of an impartial jury and that was all that defendant had a right to ask.
The form of the questions to be propounded for that purpose is a matter resting in the discretion of the trial judge.
United States v. Dennis , 2 Cir., 183 F.2d 201, 226 .
Defendant complains because the judge did not excuse for cause three of the jurors who were subsequently peremptorily excused in the exercise of defendant's right to strike.
The judge found, however, that these were impartial jurors and we would not be justified in setting aside his finding with regard thereto.
Reynolds v. United States , 98 U.S. 145, 156 , 25 L.Ed. 244 .
Defendant complains because the judge denied his request that his counsel be furnished with F.B.I.
reports to the Department of Justice as to statements of the witnesses Clontz and Childs and that the selective service file of Childs be produced for examination by his counsel.
These requests were properly denied.
As to the F.B.I.
reports on the statements of Clontz and Childs, there was no suggestion that they contained anything contradictory of testimony given by these witnesses on the trial, and the trial judge, who examined the statements, held that there was nothing in them contradictory of that testimony.
There is nothing in the Constitution or elsewhere that permits a defendant to conduct a fishing expedition of the sort here proposed.
The Constitution guarantees to a defendant accused of crime the right to be confronted by the witnesses against him, not the right to rummage through the secret files of the government in the hope that he may possibly find something contradictory of such witnesses.
The same may be said with added force as to the selective service file of Childs, where the purpose was to rummage through a confidential file of the government in the hope of finding something that might contradict a witness as to a collateral matter.
There is nothing to the contrary in Gordon v. United States , 344 U.S. 414 , 73 S.Ct. 369 , 97 L.Ed. 447 .
There a key witness for the government had admitted on cross examination that he had given statements contradictory of his testimony to government agents and that sentence on him had been withheld for complicity in the same crime by the judge who advised him to tell the whole story to the probation officers even though it might involve others.
The decision was limited to the narrow case thus presented and expressly distinguished from "any broad or blind fishing expedition among documents possessed by the Government on the chance that something impeaching might turn up", see 344 U.S. at pages 418-419 , 73 S.Ct. at page 373 , which is the case here.
The defendant had a fair and impartial trial before an able and experienced trial judge.
He was shown to be not only a member but also the chairman for the North and South Carolina District of the Communist Party, an organization shown to be an organization advocating the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force and violence, and held to be the basis of the criminal conspiracy charged in the Dennis, Frankfeld, Flynn, Mesarosh and Schneiderman cases, referred to above.
Uncontradicted testimony as to statements by him showed that he was thoroughly aware of the unlawful aims and purposes of the party, was in sympathy with those aims and purposes and entered into its activities with complete understanding of what was involved.
On the evidence before it, the jury was amply justified in finding him guilty of the crime charged; and we find nothing in the record which would justify us in awarding a new trial.
Affirmed.
