 TUTTLE , Circuit Judge.
This is an appeal from a judgment of the District Court awarding to the Government a sum representing three times the overcharges allegedly made by appellant in the sale of watches in excess of ceiling prices fixed under the Defense Production Act of 1950, 50 U.S.C.A.Appendix, 2061 et seq.
Schneer's attacked the price regulations in question as invalid as to it.
The Government contended, and the District Court determined, that it had no jurisdiction to consider this question, but that only the Emergency Court of Appeals could pass on the question of validity.
1 It is not disputed that prior to termination of the Defense Production Act of 1950, the District Courts had no power to inquire into the validity of price regulations.
2 The sole narrow issue presented here is whether the termination of the Defense Production Act rendered inoperative this provision placing exclusive jurisdiction in the Emergency Court.
There can be no doubt that if it did then appellant would have the right to have the District Court, whose jurisdiction the Government invoked to seek a penalty against appellant, pass on the legality of the regulations on which the Government's claim was based.
The Emergency Court was in existence at the time of the enactment of the Defense Production Act.
3 It was given jurisdiction over matters relating to regulations of the later law by Section 408(c), (d) and (e) of that Act.
4 That law was in effect when the proceeding here was commenced by the Government on February 19, 1953.
It expired by its own terms at the close of April 30, 1955.
On February 25, 1954, appellant filed a motion for summary judgment upon the pleadings and upon the affidavit of its president, making its attack on the validity of the regulations as to it.
On September 14, 1954, the District Court denied the motion for summary judgment without passing on the merits of the question of validity, holding that it was without jurisdiction to consider the question.
The parties here apparently concede that there was no saving clause contained in the Act itself that would have the effect of continuing in effect the limitation on the District Court's jurisdiction, 5 and we must conclude, therefore, that if this limitation outlived the repeal of the statute creating it this must follow from what is known as the General Savings Statute.
6 It will be noted that the first sentence of the law dates from 1871 and only the second sentence is new.
It merely makes the same rule applicable to a "temporary statute."
We may, therefore, look to cases construing the first sentence to determine the answer to our question.
This question, in its simplest form, is whether this sentence in the savings statute continued Section 2108(d) and (e) 7 in life for the purpose of conferring this particular jurisdiction on the Emergency Court of Appeals and denying it to the District Court.
Unless it did so keep it in life, then the case is concluded in appellant's favor under the principle announced by the Supreme Court in Bruner v. United States , 343 U.S. 112 , 72 S.Ct. 581, 584 , 96 L.Ed. 786 : "This rule--that, when a law conferring jurisdiction is repealed without any reservation as to pending cases, all cases fall with the law--has been adhered to consistently by this Court."
In that opinion the court then concluded by a holding that, it seems clear to us, proceeded to answer the question itself.
It held that the General Savings Statute does not preserve a right to have a claim heard by any particular tribunal, but preserves only the right itself.
This was the holding in Hallowell v. Commons , 239 U.S. 506 , 36 S.Ct. 202 , 60 L.Ed. 409 , wherein was involved a statute giving the Secretary of the Interior the authority to ascertain the heirs of certain Indian intestates.
The court disposed of the plaintiff's argument that it had a right to have the district court hear his claim (as was the procedure when the claim arose), and that this right was preserved by the General Savings Statute, by saying that the Act conferring jurisdiction upon the Secretary "takes away no substantive right but simply changes the tribunal that is to hear the case." 239 U.S. 506, 508 , 36 S.Ct. 202, 203 .
Although the subsequent case of De La Rama Steamship Co. v. United States , 344 U.S. 386 , 73 S.Ct. 381, 384 , 97 L.Ed. 422 , does stress the fact that too much significance has been attached to the separateness of "right" from "remedy" where the repealed law combines the elements of both, there is nothing in that case to modify the Bruner holding.
In De La Rama the court pointed out that a denial of the option of the libelant to present its right of action in admiralty or in the Court of Claims would "mutilate that right" because in admiralty interest arises from the time of filing the libel, whereas it follows only upon entry of judgment in the Court of Claims.
Moreover the language of the savings clause itself shows its clear applicability to a statute which gives a particular procedural benefit coupled with a substantive right, as in De La Rama; whereas, the statute does not by its terms apply to a statute, or part of a statute, which merely limits, within the federal system, the courts which can determine the legality of government regulations.
The section of the Defense Production Act which imposes such limitation is not one which "creates any penalty, forfeiture or liability," and the perpetuation of this section is not needed to sustain any "proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture, or liability."
It is not, then, as was the statute before the Supreme Court in De La Rama, one whose perpetuation was expressly within the language of the savings statute.
Here, neither party is deprived of any substantive right or benefit by a holding, contrary to Bruner and Hallowell, that the procedural provision of the Defense Production Act of 1950 survived its repeal, because it is of convenience to the defendant and of no greater burden to the Government to have the entire enforcement suit litigated in the same court, especially since it is apparent from the fact of repeal that the great urgency of enforcement that provided the justification for establishing jurisdiction in a special tribunal no longer exists.
Matters may now follow their normal and ordinary course, in which the court which is called upon to enforce a regulation shall have the opportunity to pass in the first instance upon its validity.
We do not pass on the question of validity of the regulations in question, but return the case for the District Court to do this.
The judgment is reversed and the case remanded for action by the trial court consistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
