 SCHNACKENBERG , Circuit Judge.
This is an appeal by Ralph D. Swanson, Marie A. Swanson, and Janet C. Sheaff, and Roy E. Crummer, intervening plaintiff, from orders of the district court dismissing the complaint and action brought by said plaintiffs, who are citizens of the state of Nevada, on behalf of Chicago North Shore and Milwaukee Railway Company, an Illinois corporation, hereinafter referred to as the "Railway Company", and all other stockholders thereof, against the Railway Company and a number of other individuals and firms.
1 It is a stockholders' derivative action.
On January 30, 1950, plaintiffs filed, their complaint alleging inter alia that certain of the defendants, including officers and directors of the Railway Company, in violation of their fiduciary duties to said company, and for the purpose of enriching themselves and others at the expense of the company, had conspired to develop and execute a plan whereby they would acquire certain bus properties in Wisconsin and elsewhere through certain corporations formed by the defendants as vehicles for the scheme, and would shortly thereafter sell the said bus properties to the company at a huge profit to themselves and others.
The complaint alleges, further, that others of the defendants, referred to in the complaint as "third party defendants", knowingly joined the conspirators and participated in the profits resulting from the conspirators' breach of their duties of fidelity to the interests of the Railway Company.
It alleges that the defendants profited, and the Railway Company was damaged, to the extent of $1,245,000, by reason of the illegal conspiracy to usurp the powers of the directors of the Railway Company and to breach a duty of loyalty and fidelity.
The complaint prays for judgment requiring the defendants, as directors and officers of the Railway Company and as conspirators and participants with them, to account for all property of the company wasted and misappropriated, and to restore said property to the company, and to account "for all secret gains, profits, advantages, and benefits received by them through the wrongful, improper, and illegal use" of the company's property, and to pay all said gains and profits to the company.
The complaint alleges that a formal demand was served on the board of directors and the president of the Railway Company at a meeting of the board on September 26, 1949, informing them of the general facts set forth in the complaint and requesting that they bring said action, and that the demand was rejected.
It further alleges that plaintiffs did not attempt to secure action by the company's stockholders prior to the institution of this suit because: The complaint also avers that jurisdiction is based upon diversity of citizenship, that all of the individual defendants are citizens of the state of Illinois, that defendant Railway Company is an Illinois corporation and that the other corporate defendants are licensed to do business in Illinois, that on November 1, 1946, the Railway Company was organized to take over the assets of a reorganized railroad company and to continue its business.
It also alleges that the initial board of directors consisted of nine members, that defendants Traer, Bogan and Burleigh were members of the initial board, that Bernard J. Fallon and Bernadotte P. Lester were also members of the initial board of directors and had knowledge of defendants' scheme to purchase the Wisconsin bus properties and to resell them to the Railway Company.
It is also alleged that Lester and Fallon co-operated with defendants in their plan.
The complaint also charges that on November 1, 1946, defendant Traer, in conjunction with other defendants and in furtherance of the preconceived plan of the defendants, resigned as a director and procured the election of defendant Leon P. Runkel, "thus maintaining the balance of power in the conspirators".
The answer of the Railway Company states inter alia that the nature of plaintiffs' action is a matter of law in respect of which this defendant abides the judgment of the court.
It also sets forth information as to stock ownership of the plaintiffs, as appearing on the records of said defendant, the service on the individual members of the board of directors and the president on September 26, 1949 of the plaintiffs' demand for the bringing of action, and states that it was declined by the board of directors.
It admits that Lester, Bishop and Whitehair are "presently" directors of defendant and that each of them is a resident and citizen of a state other than Illinois, and that each of them is actively participating in the affairs and activities of defendant.
The answer sets forth the incorporation of the Railway Company and its succession to the properties of the railroad company, that the initial board of directors consisted of nine persons, namely Traer, Bogan, Burleigh, Fallon, Lester, Stiles, Wood, Bradley and Osborne, as well as other matters not pertinent to this opinion.
The answer also sets forth verbatim the defendant's report to its stockholders for the year 1947, giving information in regard to the purchase of the Wisconsin subsidiaries, and alleges that the report was read and approved at the stockholders' meeting on March 22, 1948.
As to other matters set forth in the complaint, the answer avers that the Railway Company "has no knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief".
On December 4, 1950, Traer and certain other defendants, not including the Railway Company, filed a motion to dismiss this action, pursuant to rule 12 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, 28 U.S.C.A., on the ground inter alia that the court did not have jurisdiction of the subject matter of the action.
2 The motion to dismiss was denied on May 7, 1951.
On December 18, 1953, in the district court, there was pending a motion by defendant Fallon for leave to file a second motion to dismiss the complaint, which motion had been continued from time to time.
During the course of an argument in connection with said matter, Mr. Busch, attorney for the Railway Company made a statement in behalf of his client.
Relevant parts thereof are as follows: When Mr. Scolnik, of counsel for plaintiffs, stated that Mr. Busch "at no time ever stated to us, either in Court or by any pleading, that this was a defective complaint", Mr. Busch replied, "I do not say so now."
He then stated: In the Railway Company's brief in this court, presented by Mr. Busch and Mr. Magner, its attorneys, the following quotation from Solimine v. Hollander , 129 N.J.Eq.
264 , 19 A.2d 344, 346 , is set forth: The brief then proceeds: Otis & Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co. 57 F.Supp.
680 Kaiser v. Niemeyer 198 Wis. 581 225 N.W. 188 This corporate defendant has conducted itself in accordance with that philosophy throughout the litigation.
Therefore, on this appeal, this appellee does not participate in the question of law which was presented by the motion of the defendant Fallon.
However, the above rule does not mean that a corporate defendant must be forever voiceless--where its treasury is concerned.
Since corporate directors may have a right to seek reimbursement from the corporation for the costs of their defense (if they defend successfully) the corporate defendant is and must be interested in the length of the litigation.
What might save time might save costs.
Therefore, when the defendant Fallon, asserting that he wished to present a point of law not theretofore argued, and which, if ruled in his favor, would be determinative of the entire case, sought leave to file a motion to dismiss, the corporate defendant urged the trial court that the leave be granted.
It did so for the obvious reason that it would be an atrocious waste of the time of the court and a needless expense to the corporation, for the respective parties to embark upon a lengthy trial, only to find in the course thereof, or at its termination, that the complaint was fatally defective.
After hearing full argument from all of the parties, the District Court granted the motion of the defendant Fallon to be heard upon his motion to dismiss.
This was a sound exercise of the court's discretion.
It has been held that a motion to dismiss a complaint because of failure to state a claim on which relief can be granted is always timely, even just before trial.
Land v. Prudhomme Oil Co., D.C.La.1944, 3 F.R.D. 377.
A motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim may be made at the trial.
Ginsburg v. Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey, D.C.S.D.N.Y.1945, 5 F.R.D. 48.
The fatal deficiency of a complaint is a defect that is never waived.
Robeson v. Fanelli , D.C.S.D.N.Y., 94 F.Supp.
62, 63 .
The corporate defendant respectfully submits that granting the defendant Fallon leave to file the motion to dismiss, and to be heard thereon, was a sound exercise of judicial discretion.
We are confronted, in a brief filed by various defendants, 3 with a challenge to the jurisdiction of the district court and this court.
The complaint having expressly asserted federal court jurisdiction based upon diversity of citizenship, the said defendants' brief maintains that the Railway Company, joined as a defendant, must be realigned as a party plaintiff.
The named plaintiffs and the intervening plaintiff are citizens of the state of Nevada.
The named defendants are citizens of the state of Illinois.
The act of congress 4 provides that the district courts shall have original jurisdiction of all civil actions "where the matter in controversy exceeds the sum or value of $3,000 exclusive of interest and costs, and is between: (1) Citizens of different States: *."
The United States Supreme Court construed a similar act in Strawbridge v. Curtiss , 3 Cranch 267 , 2 L.Ed. 435 , in which the court was considering a suit where some of the plaintiffs were citizens of Massachusetts and all of the defendants except Curtiss were also citizens of that state, Curtiss being a citizen of Vermont.
Chief Justice Marshall said: He concluded that jurisdiction could not be supported.
Plaintiffs' suit is not their own, but the corporation's.
It is the real party in interest and plaintiffs are allowed to act in protection of its interest somewhat as a "next friend" might do for an individual.
Koster v. (American) Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co. , 330 U.S. 518 , at page 522, 67 S.Ct. 828 , 91 L.Ed. 1067 .
In City of Indianapolis v. Chase National Bank , 314 U.S. 63 , at page 69, 62 S.Ct. 15 , at page 17, 86 L.Ed. 47 , the court said: Helm v. Zarecor 222 U.S. 32, 36 32 S.Ct. 10, 11 56 L.Ed. 77 Niles-Bement-Pond Co. v. Iron Moulders' Union 254 U.S. 77, 81 41 S.Ct. 39, 41 65 L.Ed. 145 Strawbridge v. Curtiss 3 Cranch 267 2 L.Ed. 435 In a stockholders' derivative suit such as the case at bar, the corporation is an indispensable party.
Meyer v. Fleming , 327 U.S. 161, 167 , 66 S.Ct. 382 , 90 L.Ed. 595 ; City of Davenport v. Dows , 18 Wall. 626 , 85 U.S. 626 , 21 L.Ed. 938 ; Greenberg v. Giannini , 2 Cir., 140 F.2d 550, 554 , 152 A.L.R. 966.
The question of diversity is not solved by a mere reference to the parties' own determination of who are plaintiffs and who are defendants.
It is the duty of the federal courts to look beyond the pleadings for jurisdictional purposes and align the parties according to their real interests, which would normally put the Railway Company on the plaintiffs' side.
Koster v. (American) Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co. , supra, 330 U.S. at page 523 , 67 S.Ct. at page 831 ; City of Indianapolis v. Chase National Bank , supra, 314 U.S. at pages 69, 70 , 62 S.Ct. at pages 16, 17 .
An Illinois corporation would then appear among the plaintiffs and Illinois citizens would appear as the defendants, and jurisdiction would be ousted.
However, the named plaintiffs rely upon the doctrine that, even if a corporation would normally be realigned as a plaintiff by the court, jurisdiction is saved by a special dispensation, because, they say, "the corporation is 'in antagonistic hands'".
They rely on Doctor v. Harrington , 196 U.S. 579 , 25 S.Ct. 355 , 49 L.Ed. 606 , and Koster v. (American) Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co. , supra .
The plaintiffs must show the existence of facts giving credence to the allegation in their complaint that the "control of such action would be in hostile hands", since this matter relates directly to the question of jurisdiction.
McNutt v. General Motors Acceptance Corp. , 298 U.S. 178 , at page 189, 56 S.Ct. 780 , 80 L.Ed. 1135 .
The principal question before us, therefore, is whether plaintiffs have shown the existence of such antagonism.
First, they contend that only the allegations of the complaint are to be considered in determining that question.
They say that those allegations are clearly sufficient to show that the corporation is "in antagonistic hands", and thus to permit the joinder of the corporation as a party defendant.
The fact that the Railway Company's board of directors rejected the formal demand that the corporation bring this suit, as alleged in the complaint, is not enough to show that the corporation was then in antagonistic hands.
The following language from Smith v. Sperling , D.C., 117 F.Supp.
781 , at page 802, is persuasive on this point: The allegation in the complaint that the fraudulent conspiracy charge was joined in by "several members" of the Railway Company's "present" 5 board of directors obviously falls short of a charge that the corporation was then in hostile hands.
The control of the board was in the hands of a majority thereof, and "several" does not necessarily, and usually does not, mean a majority of a board of nine members.
It is not charged that the remaining members of the board or any of them were under the control, domination or influence of the "several members".
These allegations fail to charge that the corporation or those in control of it were hostile to the prosecution of the instant suit.
Secondly, the named plaintiffs say that, if matters beyond the complaint are to be looked to, the decisive fact is that the answer filed by the Railway Company controverts the complaint in important particulars, referring specifically to paragraph 16 of the answer.
This paragraph purports to be an answer to paragraph 16 of the complaint which charged: In answering, the Railway Company denied the aforesaid charge, and further stated that its annual report for 1947 was distributed to its stockholders about March 1, 1948, setting forth information about the purchase of the various bus lines involved in this case. The answer also showed that the report had been read to the stockholders and approved by them at the annual meeting on March 22, 1948.
We fail to see how such an answer indicates any antagonism towards this suit.
The named plaintiffs also contend that counsel for the Railway Company took positions in the district court antagonistic to them (e. g., oral argument of said counsel on December 18, 1953).
However, we find that his remarks indicated that the Railway Company was neutral on the merits of the case, but was anxious to expedite the matter so that it might be concluded.
One of the reasons for his position was that the by-laws of the company provided that, if a director were unjustly sued "because of anything that happened in the course of" his duties as such, the corporation would be liable for his attorney's fees, and there were then two of its directors named as defendants in the case, who were being represented by their own counsel.
Railway Company's counsel stated that it would be very desirable from his client's standpoint for the court to hear a pending motion to dismiss and rule upon it.
He told the court that, long before a demand was made upon the board of directors to bring the suit, he, as counsel for the Railway Company, and Mr. Magner, its general attorney, advised the company that the chances of recovery were not sufficient to warrant the expense they would be put to in starting a lawsuit.
He concluded by telling the court that he thought the motion should be considered "because it is seriously suggested that it may be determinative."
We fail to find in these statements any evidence of antagonism by the Railway Company towards this suit.
Moreover, in connection with our consideration of these matters which are beyond the allegations of the complaint, we find that Mr. Busch, counsel for the Railway Company, made an affidavit indicating that, as early as April 1949, pursuant to the direction of its board of directors, he re-examined and reviewed the matter of the acquisition of the Wisconsin bus companies, assigned Magner to the work, and made a written report to the board on June 27, 1949, on which date Mr. Bowman, then acting for several stockholders in California, and now appearing in this court as one of counsel for the named plaintiffs, served a written demand upon the board.
Thereupon Mr. Busch was requested to state his legal opinion with respect to the board's duty in view of the demand then made.
Mr. Busch then advised the board that, in his opinion, because the Wisconsin bus matter had not been authorized by a quorum of disinterested directors of the Railway Company, its purchase of these bus properties was voidable at the option of the company, which meant that it was subject to rescission, or, in the alternative, the company could bring an action for damages or for a breach of trust; that as to rescission, that question was one in respect to which each director was required by law to exercise his best business judgment; and, with respect to the other remedies, a suit for damages would not be an effective action and the facts then known to him were not such as to warrant an opinion that an action for a breach of trust would be successful; that the prosecution of such actions could be carried on only at considerable expense to the corporation, and the likelihood of success was not, in his opinion, strong enough to justify the expenditures of the corporation's money in respect thereof; whereupon all of the directors present and Mr. Busch expressed the view that the Railway Company should not give up possession of the so-called bus properties or seek rescission of the contracts executed in respect thereof.
What occurred after said meeting we have hereinbefore set forth.
We think that the foregoing facts demonstrate that, in their business judgment, both the directors and Mr. Busch were of the sincere opinion that the filing of such a suit would not be for the best interests of the corporation and its stockholders.
The named plaintiffs disagreed.
This difference of opinion is not of itself evidence of antagonism on the part of the Railway Company.
The test is whether there is a collision between the personal interests of those in control of the corporation and the interests of the corporation itself in the subject matter of the suit.
Such antagonism may appear from the relationship of those in control of the corporation to the defendants, or by the words or acts of those in control which might, as a matter of fact, prove an attitude antagonistic to the suit.
Situations readily suggest themselves in which plaintiffs might be impeded in preparing and prosecuting a case, such as a refusal of the corporation to permit access to its files and records, or the corporation's giving aid to the defendants in opposing the suit.
6 No such relationship, words or acts are charged by plaintiffs in this case.
Hostility is not shown.
As we have pointed out, the mere refusal by the Railway Company to bring the suit is not evidence of hostility toward plaintiffs, especially when based upon advice of counsel who studied the situation.
We hold that the Railway Company named as a party-defendant must be realigned as a party plaintiff.
It follows that diversity of citizenship is not present and that the district court was and is without jurisdiction.
For that reason, the orders of dismissal are Affirmed.
