 LEWIS , Circuit Judge.
By complaint filed in the United States District Court for the District of Wyoming, plaintiff Flora 1 sought recovery of the sum of $5,058.54 paid to the government in partial satisfaction of a deficiency personal income tax assessment for the year 1950 in the amount of $27,251.13.
Taxpayer alleged the deficiency to be erroneously assessed and the payment to be illegally collected because of a determination by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue that certain losses occurring to the taxpayer during the tax period and reported by him as ordinary losses were properly capital losses within the meaning of that term as defined by sec. 117(a) (1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, 26 U.S.C.A. 117(a) (1).
Jurisdiction is alleged to exist under the provisions of 28 U.S.C.A. 1346 .
2 Responding to the complaint, the government alleged that the action could not be maintained in the District Court because the entire amount of the assessment had not been paid and, without waiving this special defense, counterclaimed for the unpaid balance.
The District Court denied the special defense 3 but entered judgment upon the merits for the government on its counterclaim.
We are of the opinion that determination of a single question is dispositive of the case: Can a taxpayer maintain a personal income tax refund suit in the District Court without first paying the entire amount of the tax assessed for the period in question?
Beginning with the comments of Mr. Justice Miller in Cheatham v. United States , 92 U.S. 85 , 23 L.Ed. 561 , and continuing through many decisions, 4 the Supreme Court has consistently indicated that full payment of a tax deficiency is a prerequisite to a judicial claim for refund.
And such has been the established policy of our tax system.
5 In 1924, Congress, recognizing both the desirability of maintaining a minimum of judicial interference with the collection of taxes and the concomitant hardship imposed on taxpayers by an inflexible "pay first, litigate later" rule, established the Board of Tax Appeals (now the United States Tax Court) as a place where the validity of a tax assessment could be initially questioned.
In creating the Board of Tax Appeals the House Committee on Ways and Means stated: after payment of his tax section 3224 Since the establishment of the tax court the distinctive purpose of its creation has been judicially recognized and its intended powers guarded.
In Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner , 279 U.S. 716, 721 , 49 S.Ct. 499, 501 , 73 L.Ed. 918 , the Supreme Court stated: section 900 43 Stat. 253 And in Dobson v. Commissioner , supra , the court stated [ 320 U.S. 489 , 64 S.Ct. 247 ]: In view of such consistent statements of the Supreme Court and the actual wording of sec. 7422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 26 U.S.C.A. 7422 , 6 we are not impressed with the argument that the instant suit is but a claim for refund for an amount of tax actually paid and does not include a review of the total assessment or the remaining deficiency not paid.
Such approach is unrealistic and serves only to conveniently defeat the established purpose and function of the tax court.
Taxpayer's complaint wherein it affirmatively appeared that only a partial payment upon a deficiency assessment, had been made failed to state a claim.
The government, apparently content with the deficiency assessment, does not contend that its judgment upon counterclaim should be sustained independently.
The cause is remanded to the District Court with directions to vacate the judgment of the government upon its counterclaim and to dismiss the action without prejudice.
