 SCHNACKENBERG , Circuit Judge.
We heretofore, Irvin v. Dowd , 7 Cir., 251 F.2d 548 , affirmed an order of the district court dismissing a petition for writ of habeas corpus filed by petitioner, who is also referred to herein as "defendant".
1 Subsequently our judgment was reversed and this case was remanded to this court, 359 U.S. 394 , 79 S.Ct. 825 , 3 L.Ed. 900 .
The federal Supreme Court held, 359 U.S. at page 405 , 79 S.Ct. 825 , that the state Supreme Court decided petitioner's federal constitutional claim.
In remanding, 359 U.S. at page 407 , 79 S.Ct. 825 , the court left it to us to decide the merits of that claim or to remand to the district court for further consideration thereof.
We have determined to decide the merits of that claim.
As stated in his brief, defendant's constitutional claim of denial of due process of law is based principally upon his allegations of bias and prejudice in the community where his trial occurred and a preconceived opinion of the trial jurors that defendant was guilty.
As the Supreme Court said, 359 U.S., at page 396 , 79 S.Ct. at page 827 : 1.
It cannot be denied that it was the duty of the state of Indiana to apprehend and punish the person who perpetrated the aforesaid murders.
Upon a state there rests no more sacred duty than the protection of the lives of its citizens from criminal attack.
At the same time the state owes a duty to any person charged with such crimes to afford him a fair trial as required by the federal constitution.
What is a fair trial depends upon the circumstances existing at and prior to the trial.
An accused's right to a fair trial is coexistent with the right of law-abiding citizens to lawful protection by their government.
It is not surprising that, the more extensive the news coverage of a crime and the more wanton and unjustified the crime itself, the greater and more extensive is the indignation of citizens.
Such indignation, varying in its degree according to the violence of the crime, and geographically extensive with the area of news distribution, undoubtedly causes many people to form impressions or beliefs as to the guilt or innocence of suspected or indicted persons.
In these days of widely effective and thorough news distributing instrumentalities, such as the telephone, newspaper, radio and television, as well as rapid travel of persons by automobiles, trains and airplanes, hardly a person anywhere in a state, or in fact in the United States, is long ignorant of the details of crimes committed in any state (or in this country), unless he be completely mentally incompetent or is in solitary confinement in a jail.
In fact, it may well be that into the latter place the grapevine reaches.
We no longer live in a day when what happened in the next county was learned only by conversation with a traveling man or a brakeman on the way freight train.
It is into this modern society with facilities for quick and broad news coverage that a person who commits six murders projects himself.
When apprehended, he is entitled to a fair trial and is to be accorded due process of law, according to the existing circumstances.
Our problem in its last analysis is whether the general resentment of a people following the publication by news distributing media of information in regard to a series of murders may be relied upon to prevent the state from prosecuting a person indicted for these crimes, even though his trial be held before an unbiased judge and a jury is selected in accordance with established principles applicable to such a case.
If the state is so prevented from trying such a person, it means that the commission within a state of a multiplicity of criminal acts, followed by the usual publicity, actually immunizes the offender from prosecution.
We reject such a conclusion as the law of this circuit.
There was undoubtedly a prejudice against the person or persons who committed the series of murders, including that of Whitney Leslie Kerr on December 23, 1954 for which defendant was indicted.
It was publicly announced that defendant had confessed that killing and five other murders.
There is no contention by defendant that the alleged bias and prejudice in the community affected the judge and interfered with his presiding as a fair jurist or that perjured evidence was produced against defendant at the trial.
It is only in the jury box that counsel for defendant professes to find some effect of community prejudice damaging to defendant.
It is true that some jurors, when questioned on their voir dire , admitted a preconceived opinion that he was guilty.
History shows that this is not an unprecedented situation.
Accordingly it has been met by the law.
Usually there is a pertinent statute, such as that in effect in Indiana, 9-1504 , Burns' Indiana Statutes, Annotated, which reads: The record reveals that the trial judge applied this act in this case. With painstaking care, the court, in asking questions of jurors expressing an opinion as to the guilt or innocence of defendant, founded upon reading newspaper statements, communications, comments or reports, or upon rumors or hearsay, required each such juror to state on oath whether he felt able, notwithstanding such opinion, to render an impartial verdict upon the law and evidence.
Several of those who answered in the affirmative were accepted upon the trial jury.
Defendant now seeks to have us determine, as a matter of federal constitutional law, that this action by the trial court deprived defendant of a fair trial.
We have no right to question the intelligence, the truthfulness or the sincerity of these jurors, whose impartiality to render a verdict upon the law and the evidence was, after examination, determined to the trial judge's satisfaction, in the manner provided by the Indiana act.
A careful reading of the entire record convinces us that the jury which tried defendant was properly qualified as a fair and impartial fact-finding body.
In Reynolds v. United States , 98 U.S. 145, 155 , 25 L.Ed. 244 , the court said: In Hopt v. People of Utah , 120 U.S. 430, 434 , 7 S.Ct. 614 , 30 L.Ed. 708 , a juror who formed a qualified opinion based upon newspaper accounts, testified that he could try the case according to the evidence given in court.
The Supreme Court held that the judgment of the trial court that the juror was competent was conclusive.
In Holt v. United States , 218 U.S. 245, 248 , 31 S.Ct. 2, 4 , 54 L.Ed. 1021 , the court said: While our conclusion suffices to dispose of the point now under consideration, we note the existence in New York of a statute dealing with a juror "who doubts his ability to lay aside an opinion or impression formed from newspaper reading or otherwise, or to render an impartial verdict upon the evidence, uninfluenced by any such opinion or impression *".
People v. Buchalter , 289 N.Y. 181 , 45 N.E.2d 225, 245 .
When the case reached the United States Supreme Court, Buchalter v. People of State of New York , 319 U.S. 427 , at page 430 , 63 S.Ct. 1129 , at page 1131 , 87 L.Ed. 1492 , the court said: such assertion raises no due process question 2.
During his trial defendant made several motions for continuance based upon what he described as bias and prejudice against him in the community.
These motions were denied and he insists that such action violated due process of law.
He reasons that "it is difficult to predict what would have happened had this cause been continued until a later date", and "it is difficult to say whether it would have been again necessary for Petitioner-Appellant to have sought an additional continuance, or whether, at that time, the bias and prejudice against Petitioner-Appellant would have subsided."
When these motions were made the trial was under way, the voir dire examinations having been commenced on November 14, 1955.
This was almost 11 months after the crime had been committed on December 23, 1954, and 8 months after defendant was arrested and made his confession, which had been publicized at the time in Vanderburgh county.
It seems to us that there is no more reason to believe that further delay would then have allowed public opinion to subside than that such delay would have incurred greater public feeling aroused by the slowness of the judicial process.
In any event the presentation of these motions for continuance required a careful exercise of discretion by the trial judge.
His denial of the motions was the exercise of a discretion which will not be disturbed by a reviewing court, in the absence of an abuse thereof.
This is recognized by the case which is relied upon by defendant in his brief, Liese v. State , 233 Ind. 250, 254 , 118 N.E.2d 731 .
There was no abuse of discretion by the trial judge in this respect.
3.
A change of venue was granted to defendant from Vanderburgh county to Gibson county by authority of 9-1305 , Burns' Indiana Statutes, Annotated, which reads: Defendant repeatedly and unsuccessfully in the Gibson County Circuit Court sought a change of venue from Gibson county.
For the first time, defendant, in his brief filed in this court on appeal from the district court, raises a question as to the constitutionality of this change of venue statute, limiting defendant to but one county change of venue.
We might well dispose of this point upon the ground that he had not raised it in the court below.
We shall, however, consider the validity of this challenge.
It is significant that defendant cites no federal court decision to sustain his ipse dixit contention that the act violates the federal constitution.
We have found none.
Various states have similar statutes forbidding county changes of venue after a case has been once removed to another county by change of venue.
The United States Supreme Court has denied certiorari to review convictions occurring in the county to which a change of venue was granted, but from which a second change of venue was denied.
Patterson v. State , 234 Ala. 342 , 175 So. 371 , certiorari denied 302 U.S. 733 , 58 S.Ct. 121 , 82 L.Ed. 567 (rape), and State v. Morgan , 147 La. 205 , 84 So. 589 , certiorari denied 253 U.S. 498 , 40 S.Ct. 588 , 64 L.Ed. 1032 (murder).
To the same effect, see People v. Doss , 382 Ill. 307 , 46 N.E.2d 984 , certiorari denied 320 U.S. 762 , 64 S.Ct. 38 , 88 L.Ed. 454 , rehearing denied 320 U.S. 813 , 64 S.Ct. 194 , 88 L.Ed. 491 , appeal dismissed (criminal contempt), Doss v. Lindsley , 325 U.S. 835 , 65 S.Ct. 1202 , 89 L.Ed. 1962 .
We hold 9-1305 not unconstitutional, as charged.
4.
Defendant contends that he challenged certain jurors for cause and made offers, which were overruled, to prove that they were biased against him, and he was thus prevented from having a fair trial.
However, the record shows that the jurors to whom he refers, Hensley, Montgomery and Higginbotham, were fully examined in open court and that defense counsel participated in interrogating these persons.
If it be assumed arguendo that, in a situation such as this, where a prospective juror is subjected to interrogation as to his qualifications by counsel for both sides in a criminal case, an offer to prove that he is disqualified can properly be made by defense counsel, the fact remains that the offers appearing in this record are insufficient in that they state mere conclusions without disclosing the alleged facts upon which the conclusions are based.
Malone v. State , 176 Ind. 338 , 96 N.E. 1, 2 .
We find no violation of defendant's federal constitutional rights in respect to the rejection by the trial court of these offers.
5.
Defendant also urges that the trial court refused to permit him to introduce evidence in an effort to establish an illegal arrest, unlawful detention and involuntary nature of resultant purported confession, which refusal denied him due process of law.
We find that the record actually does not show that the court refused permission to defendant to introduce evidence in this respect.
Counsel have seized upon a few words at the end of a lengthy objection made by the defense to a question put on December 16 , 1955 to a police officer, who was a state witness, asking what defendant told the witness about the murder of Kerr on April 12, 1955.
The jury was then present.
This objection was very lengthy and the latter part embodied a statement of facts, concluding with the words "all of which the defendant now asks leave of court to prove and introduce evidence to prove the same."
The court said, "Objection overruled".
Actually defendant had on December 14 , 1955, introduced evidence on this point at a preliminary hearing out of the presence of the jury, to support his objection to the introduction of his confession.
At that time the court overruled defendant's objection.
The trial on December 16, 1955 thereupon proceeded before the jury, during which the state witnesses were cross-examined by defense counsel.
Moreover, defendant in the trial before the jury undoubtedly had a right to introduce evidence bearing upon the question of the voluntary nature of his confession.
However he offered none.
Obviously there is no substance to defendant's contention that he was refused permission to introduce evidence to establish the alleged involuntary nature of his confession.
6.
However, relying upon the record, defendant claims that his conviction, based upon a confession obtained by state officers through the use of force, duress and intimidation and while he was being held contrary to Indiana law, violates due process.
There was a lengthy trial in the Gibson County Circuit Court.
The record now before us shows that the trial was conducted by a judge possessing seemingly inexhaustible patience and exercising meticulous regard for the rights of defendant.
We have examined this record carefully and we are convinced of the correctness of the statement made by the Indiana Supreme Court in Irvin v. State , 236 Ind. 384, 393 , 139 N.E.2d 898, 902 : Fourteenth Amendment 12 7.
Attorneys Wever and Sandusky, state prosecutors, handled the prosecution at the trial.
Over objection of defense, Wever testified that he was informed that defendant wanted to see him and hence he had a conversation with the defendant, which he related.
He was cross-examined.
The court instructed the jury that they were "the sole judges of the facts and credibility of the witnesses", and that they had a right to believe the witnesses they deemed most worthy of credit and disbelieve witnesses whom they believed least worthy of credit; that, in "determining whom you will believe you may consider the nature of the evidence given by them, their interest, bias or prejudice, if any disclosed; and in weighing the testimony and determining the credibility of the witness, it is proper for you to take into consideration all the surrounding circumstances of the witnesses as brought out in the evidence, their interest, if any, in the result of the action, and such other facts appearing in the evidence as will, in your opinion, aid you in determining whom you will believe; *."
The testimony of Wever was cumulative to that of other state witnesses.
For instance, he, as well as several police officers, testified about locating the gun, which defendant said he used in killing Kerr, at a place mentioned by defendant in the conversation with Wever.
Wever made a closing argument.
Defendant contends that this conduct was unethical and that it violates due process.
In a forum where the ethics of Wever's conduct is directly brought in issue by the state of Indiana, it is apparent that a charge of unethical conduct on the foregoing facts would be serious.
However, in this case we cannot adjudicate a question of ethics.
Certainly the testimony he gave was relevant to the case on trial, and he was a competent witness.
As a factual matter the defense offered no evidence to contradict Wever's statement that the defendant wanted to see Wever.
Hence it was not a case of the prosecutor seeking evidence by initiating a visit to the defendant.
The jury heard a searching cross-examination of Wever by defense counsel and were then instructed by the court as to the right of the jury to consider the interest of a witness in the result of the case, in determining whom the jurors would believe.
Therefore, in view of all these circumstances, it is entirely a matter of surmise whether Wever's conduct had a harmful effect upon defendant in the minds of the jury.
It is more reasonable to conclude that the jurors would react against the state in view of such conduct by its legal representative.
However that may be, the most that can be said is that this conduct was error which did not have such a substantial effect upon the outcome as to strip the trial of due process.
This conclusion finds support in Burwell v. Teets , 9 Cir., 245 F.2d 154, 168 , certiorari denied 355 U.S. 896 , 78 S.Ct. 271 , 2 L.Ed.2d 194 ; People v. Burwell , 44 Cal.2d 16 , 279 P.2d 744, 756 , certiorari denied 349 U.S. 936 , 75 S.Ct. 788 , 99 L.Ed. 1265 .
In United States ex rel.
Darcy v. Handy , 351 U.S. 454, 462 , 76 S.Ct. 965, 970 , 100 L.Ed. 1331 , the court said: Adams v. United States ex rel.
McCann 317 U.S. 269, 281 63 S.Ct. 236, 242 87 L.Ed. 268 Buchalter v. People of State of New York 319 U.S. 427, 431 63 S.Ct. 1129, 1131 87 L.Ed. 1492 Stroble v. California 343 U.S. 181, 198 72 S.Ct. 599, 607 96 L.Ed. 872 Holt v. United States 218 U.S. 245, 251 31 S.Ct. 26 54 L.Ed. 1021 8.
As to the contention of defendant that the trial court denied him permission to have a court stenographer report the prosecutor's closing argument to the jury, it is settled practice in the courts of Indiana to not report verbatim closing arguments to juries, unless the trial court so directs.
Evidently there was no discrimination against defendant in this respect.
Even if there were, it appears that his counsel succeeded in having the trial judge incorporate into the record the precise language used by the prosecutor in his closing argument upon which defendant bases his contention that the prosecutor's conduct was unethical; 2 hence the error, if any, in refusing permission to report the entire argument was harmless.
In any event, even if error occurred in this respect, the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not enable us to review such error.
Buchalter v. People of State of New York , 319 U.S. 427, 431 , 63 S.Ct. 1129 , 87 L.Ed. 1492 .
For all of the foregoing reasons, we decide that defendant has not sustained his federal constitutional claim that he was convicted in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment .
Accordingly, the judgment of the district court is affirmed and the stay of execution heretofore entered herein is vacated.
Affirmed and stay of execution vacated.
