 PICKETT , Circuit Judge.
Sunray Mid-Continent Oil Company, an independent producer of natural gas, entered into a contract with United Gas Pipe Line Company wherein it was agreed that Sunray would sell to United quantities of natural gas over a period of 20 years.
Pursuant to Section 7(c) of the Natural Gas Act ( 15 U.S.C.A. 717f(c) , Sunray applied to the Federal Power Commission for a certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing the sale covered by the contract "to the extent, and only to the extent, that such gas is transported in interstate commerce for resale for the remainder of the term of said contract and as it may be renewed or extended, and that said certificate provide for its own expiration on the expiration of the said contract term so as to authorize Applicant to cease the delivery and sale of gas thereunder at that time."
The trial examiner denied Sunray's request that the certificate be coextensive with the term of the contract, and directed the issuance of a certificate without time limitation.
The Commission affirmed the examiner with respect to the issue here.
Sunray's petition to review and modify the order alleges numerous errors, all of which are directed to the refusal of the Commission to limit the certificate to the term of the contract.
Sunray contends that the Commission was without authority to issue a certificate requiring the sale of larger quantities of gas over a longer period of time than required under the contract, without any evidence and a finding that public convenience and necessity so required, and that the Commission's action amounted to a rewriting of the contract.
We think the question here presented was determined by this Court in a former proceeding involving substantially identical facts.
Sunray Mid-Continent Oil Company v. Federal Power Commission , 10 Cir., 239 F.2d 97, 100 .
In the former case the Commission had held that under the provisions of Section 7(b) of the Natural Gas Act ( 15 U.S.C.A. 717f(b) relating to abandonment of service, it was without authority to issue a certificate of public convenience and necessity for a limited duration.
We held that while the Commission has authority under Section 7(c) and (e) to issue certificates of limited duration under proper circumstances, it is not bound by the time limitations contained in applications, and the order was affirmed because there had been no showing that such conditioning circumstances existed.
1 The Supreme Court reversed, 353 U.S. 944 , 77 S.Ct. 792 , 1 L.Ed.2d 794 , not upon the merits of the case, but for the reason that the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeals was exhausted when it held that the Commission had authority to issue certificates of limited duration, and therefore no power remained to determine whether the applicant was entitled to such a limited certificate.
It was ordered that the case be remanded to the Commission for determination of that question.
In this case there was a hearing which afforded an opportunity to show that the circumstances warranted the issuance of a limited certificate, but no such showing was made.
The real issue, then, is whether a natural gas company may provide for the cessation of its service on a specified future date simply by contracting to sell gas only until that date, or whether, in that situation, the service may be suspended only in a proceeding initiated under Section 7(b) of the Act.
2 We agree with the disposition of that question in the former case, where it was said: Section 7(e) Colorado Interstate Gas Co. v. Federal Power Commission 142 F.2d 943 Federal Power Commission v. Hope Natural Gas Co. 320 U.S. 591 64 S.Ct. 281 88 L.Ed. 333 15 U.S.C.A. 717f(a) Illinois Natural Gas Co. v. Central Illinois Public Service Co. 314 U.S. 498 62 S.Ct. 384 86 L.Ed. 371 Affirmed.
