 RIVES , Circuit Judge.
This appeal is from a judgment of conviction for white slavery, 18 U.S.C.A. 2421 .
The questions presented are thus stated in appellant's brief: The indictment charged, in substance, that on or about December 12, 1957, the defendant did knowingly transport in interstate commerce from Columbus, Georgia, to Dothan, Alabama, a woman, Mary Kathleen Byrd, for the purpose of prostitution.
Leroy Mills testified that in December 1957, he was a bellboy at the Hotel Martin in Dothan, Alabama; that on December 13 he made several calls to Room 110, then occupied by the woman and defendant; that on one of those calls, the defendant asked him, "Boy, how is business?"
"And I said, 'What kind of business?'
And then he said that, 'We are working, and if you get anything, to let us know.'
Q. All right, and did--did the woman say anything in his presence at that time or not?
A. Yes, she says- Q. Speak out loud?
A. She says, 'You haven't had any business?'
I said, 'Yes'm, I had two this morning, but I have turned them down.'"
On this next visit to the room, the woman asked, "You haven't had any business yet," and he answered "No," whereupon the defendant said: "We are going out for awhile, and if you have any business to be sure to hold it for us; we will be back after a little while"; that later he went back to carry coca-colas, whereupon the following conversation ensued: He further testified that the man and woman became noisy and he went to the room to ask them to be quiet, that in the defendant's presence, "She said, 'How about the business, there ain't no business'; I said, 'No, it is just slow today.'"
Henry W. Hilson testified that he was a detective for the City of Dothan, Alabama; that he arrested the defendant on December 13, 1957, and found on his person two Southeastern Greyhound Lines bus stubs showing that they were issued December 12, 1957, for transportation from Columbus, Georgia, to Dothan, Alabama; that he made no threats or promises to the defendant, but the defendant made a voluntary statement to him.
The defendant objected to that statement on the ground that the corpus delicti had not been proved.
The court overruled the objection, and Hilson testified: Mary Kathleen Byrd testified that she was formerly known as Mary Kathleen Byrd, that she is now Mary K. Wyatt, that the defendant is her husband.
The following then occurred: The witness then testified that she was in Dothan on December 13, 1957; that she and the defendant came on the same bus from Columbus, Georgia; that the defendant bought her ticket, but that she gave him the money to purchase her ticket; that they came to the Martin Hotel and that she registered for herself and the defendant as Mr. and Mrs. James Wyatt; that both of them went to Room 110 at the Martin Hotel; that she stayed only a few minutes and then went to the Houston Hotel in Dothan, where she registered as Mary K. Byrd.
She testified that she could not recognize Leroy Mills and that she was not present in the Martin Hotel during any conversation between the defendant and a bellhop, "only when the boy called it a disturbance when we was having an argument."
John W. Lill, Jr., testified that he is a Special Agent of the F.B.I.
stationed at Dothan, that on December 14, 1957, the defendant made a free and voluntary statement to him.
The defendant again objected on the ground that " the Government has not proved the corpus delicti in this case." The court overruled the objection, and Mr. Lill testified: The defendant did not testify and no witnesses were offered in his behalf.
Admittedly, a conviction cannot be sustained on the uncorroborated admissions or statements of a defendant.
It is sufficient, however, if there be some evidence independent of a confession, which, when taken with the confession, will warrant the jury in finding defendant's guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
1 There was sufficient proof of the corpus delicti to authorize the admission of the defendant's statements and admissions.
The jury could believe such parts of a witness' testimony as they found credible, and disbelieve other parts, and could draw all reasonable inferences from the evidence.
In our opinion, the evidence was clearly sufficient to sustain the verdict, and no harm was caused the defendant by his counsel's failure to move for judgment of acquittal.
Rule 29 , Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, 18 U.S.C.A. In the absence of such a motion, the evidence will be reviewed by this Court only to prevent a manifest miscarriage of justice, 2 and that does not appear in this case. A more difficult question is posed by the second inquiry.
"May the wife of a defendant be compelled by the District Judge to testify against her husband?"
On the present record, we must assume that she was his wife.
We shall assume, also, though it is not clear, that the defendant objected to her testimony, and that he, as well as the wife, claimed the marital privilege.
So assuming, the recent case of Hawkins v. United States , 1958, 79 S.Ct. 136 , would necessitate a reversal, but for the fact that in Hawkins the wife was not the victim and here she is.
That distinction is vital.
It was the ground upon which the District Court in the present case based its ruling "that the old common law privilege that gave a wife the right to refuse to testify did not exist in a White Slave Traffic Act case, where the wife is the alleged victim."
The privilege not to testify against one's husband or wife and the disqualification by marital relationship, as Professor Wigmore observes, "travel together, associated in judicial phrasing, from almost the beginning of their recorded journey."
3 Indeed, no distinction between the two need be recognized, for as the Supreme Court ruled in Hawkins v. United States , supra , 79 S.Ct. at page 138 : Stein v. Bowman supra 13 Pet.
209, at page 223 10 L.Ed. 129 That case reaffirmed the general common law rule 4 to the extent that husband and wife may not testify against each other, but, significantly, we think, it noted the exception to that rule here pertinent: Stein v. Bowman 13 Pet.
209 10 L.Ed. 129 13 Pet.
at page 221 Hawkins v. United States supra 79 S.Ct. at page 137 That exception has existed at least since 1631, when it was recognized in a case bearing some resemblance to a modern "white slave" case, Lord Audley's Trial , 3 How.St.Tr.
401, 402, 414 .
There, the notorious Lord Audley had employed his servants as his nefarious instruments to rape his wife, and stood by while they executed his commands.
There has been doubt as to the extent of the exception.
As Professor Wigmore says: Consistently with such doubt, the appellant argues: A husband, bound legally and morally to protect his wife, but who instead helps her to be a prostitute, cannot be heard to argue that she is as depraved as he.
That is a manifest impossibility.
The fact that the transportation occurred before marriage certainly would not any the more disqualify the wife. 5 The law is now settled in favor of the exception by a long line of decisions under this same Act 6 with only two early cases to the contrary.
7 The Supreme Court in the Hawkins case, supra , refers to none of the many pertinent cases just mentioned and evinces no intent to repudiate them.
Finding no reversible error in the record, the judgment is Affirmed.
