 SCHNACKENBERG , Circuit Judge.
A complaint was filed in the District Court by plaintiffs, Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen, Order of Railway Conductors and Brakemen, Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, and Switchmen's Union of North America, unincorporated labor organizations.
It designated as defendants, The Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company and fifteen other named railroad companies, described as representatives of a class of railroads that is so numerous (more than 200) as to make it impracticable to bring them all before the court.
The complaint sought a judgment declaring unlawful a July 17, 1962 Promulgation of Revision in Work Rules issued by defendants, with respect to defendants' operating employees represented by plaintiffs in collective bargaining duly authorized under the Railway Labor Act, 45 U.S.C.A. 151 et seq.
Each of the members of the class represented by defendants is a carrier as defined in 1 of the Act.
1 On August 6, 1962 at the conclusion of arguments on a motion of the Carriers to dismiss the complaint, they were permitted by the court and without objection from the Organizations, to withdraw their July 17, 1962 promulgation of rules changes.
The Carriers then by letter issued a promulgation of rules changes dated August 6, 1962, which stated that the changes proposed by the Carriers in their notice served under 6 of the Railway Labor Act ( 45 U.S.C.A. 156 ) on November 2, 1959 would become effective August 16, 1962.
The Organizations thereupon amended their complaint to seek similar relief against the later promulgation.
On August 8, 1962, the court, after hearing arguments upon the Carriers' motion to dismiss, entered an order dismissing the amended complaint for failure to state a claim upon which relief could be granted and also denying a motion for a preliminary injunction based thereon.
The Organizations appealed from that order and moved for an injunction pending appeal, under 28 U.S.C.A. Rule 62(c).
This injunction was granted on August 10, 1962.
In our case No. 13855 we heard arguments on a motion of the Carriers to dissolve and vacate that injunction and on August 15, 1962 we denied the motion.
We have this day disposed of that case. In case No. 13876 there was evidence tending to prove the facts which we now summarize.
2 By letter dated February 10, 1959, President Loomis of the Association of American Railroads invited the Organizations to join with the Carriers in seeking the creation of a presidential commission to investigate and make a report on rules about which the Carriers complained, and, more particularly, the impact of the existing rules on the public welfare.
This proposal was rejected by the Organizations on June 4, 1959 in a letter to President Loomis.
At the same time they addressed a letter to the Secretary of Labor of the United States, in which it was stated: 3 Testimony at the trial supports the factual allegations in a letter by Mr. Loomis to the President of the United States, under date of August 17, 1959, from which we quote: On August 24, 1959, the Organizations wrote to the President opposing his appointment of a Commission and urging a policy of non-government intervention.
The President, by letter dated September 9, 1959, refused to appoint a commission.
On November 2, 1959, the Carriers served on the representatives of the Organizations, pursuant to the provisions of Section 6 of the Railway Labor Act, notices of intended changes in agreements affecting rates of pay, rules and working conditions, which proposed changes are now before this court.
These proposed changes in existing agreements contemplate the following: The evidence in the record is to the effect that certain rules contained in existing agreements between the Carriers and their operating employees, during the year 1961, cost the railroad industry $592,062,000 in wage costs for unneeded employees occupying redundant positions, pay for time not worked, compensation that was not commensurate with the value of the services rendered, and the cost of owning and maintaining equipment and facilities that would not be required apart from the restrictions placed upon the efficiency and economy of operations by such rules.
Following service of the Carriers' notices, the proposals therein contained were the subject of conferences on individual railroads, but no agreements were reached.
On June 9, 1960, the Carriers requested concerted national handling of their proposals by national bargaining committees designated by the Carriers and the Organizations.
Meetings of such national bargaining committees were begun on July 6, 1960, and extended through October 17, 1960.
During such national conferences the Organizations contended that the ordinary processes of the Railway Labor Act were not suited to handling the Carriers' proposals, and now urged that the parties agree to refer the Carriers' proposals and such other proposals as either party might desire to submit to "a special wage study commission."
This merely produced further correspondence.
On October 17, 1960, an agreement was entered into between the Carriers and the Organizations, under the auspices of the Secretary of Labor, providing for the creation of a Presidential Railroad Commission to investigate the facts and report its findings and recommendations to the President with respect to the controversy between the parties--substantially as proposed by the Organizations.
It was further provided in said agreement that the "controversy between the parties" involved the proposals of the Carriers contained in their Section 6 notices of November 2, 1959, and proposals of the Organizations served on the Carriers on September 7, 1960 (both of which were attached to the memorandum) "including any implementing proposal or proposals that may be submitted to the Commission."
The memorandum also contained, among others, the following provisions: shall be considered and accepted as in lieu of the mediation and emergency board procedures provided by Sections 5 and 10 of the Railway Labor Act The Organizations thereafter expressed their entire satisfaction with the arrangements stipulated in the agreement, and reasserted their contention "that the work rules problem is 'too difficult' to be resolved under the regular procedures of the Railway Labor Act"; and on November 1, 1960, the Presidential Commission requested by the parties was duly created by Executive Order No. 10891, U.S.Code Cong. and Adm.News 1960, p. 1693.
The members of the Commission were appointed by the President on December 22, 1960.
Five of the members of the Commission were appointed from nominations submitted by the Organizations, five members from nominations submitted by the Carriers, and five public members were appointed without nominations from the parties.
The Commission began its hearings on February 16, 1961, and delivered its report and recommendations to the President on February 28, 1962.
There were 15,500 pages of oral testimony and thousands of pages of exhibits received by the Commission.
The Commission also made numerous studies independently of the parties, and was assisted in its work by a staff of independent technical experts.
Beginning in October, following the fact-gathering stage of the Commission's proceedings, the public members of the Commission sought to narrow the issues and mediate the differences between the parties, but no agreement was reached.
When the report and recommendations of the Commission were delivered to the President on February 28, 1962, he requested the parties to enter into immediate and expeditious collective bargaining over the issues which remained in dispute.
National conferences were resumed on April 2, 1962, and continued through May 17, 1962.
The Carriers accepted the report and recommendations of the Presidential Commission but its report and recommendations were rejected by the Organizations, and no agreement was reached.
On May 21, 1962, the Organizations made application for the mediation services of the National Mediation Board under Section 5 of the Railway Labor Act, and during the period May 25 to June 22, 1962, approximately 32 meetings were held with the representatives of the Carriers and the Organizations under the auspices of the chairman of that Board.
But the National Mediation Board was unable to bring the parties into agreement.
On June 26, 1962, the National Mediation Board requested and urged that the Carriers and the Organizations enter into an agreement to submit the controversy to arbitration under Section 7 of the Railway Labor Act ( 45 U.S.C.A. 157 ).
The Carriers accepted this proffer of arbitration but the Organizations rejected it.
On July 16, 1962, the National Mediation Board advised the parties that in its judgment all practical methods provided for its adjusting the dispute had been exhausted without effecting a settlement, and that the Board had that day terminated its services under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act.
On the next day, the Carriers issued the promulgation of July 17, 1962, p. 504, for which the promulgation of August 6, 1962 was substituted, p. 504.
1.
As amended, the complaint of the Organizations alleges that the Carriers' promulgation of rules of August 6, 1962 violates the Railway Labor Act.
They argue that it is unlawful because, if given effect, it would destroy the basic ingredient upon which the Railway Labor Act and the other federal labor laws depend for success in the elimination of strikes.
They define this essential ingredient as knowledge on the part of the employees and their supervisors of the rates of pay and the terms and conditions of employment, the source of which knowledge is the collective bargaining agreement.
In short, they argue that mutual knowledge granted by collective agreement, tends to promote understanding between the employees and the employer and hence reduces the occasions for surprise, for friction, for discontent, for strikes, and for interruptions to the flow of interstate commerce.
They cite Local 24 of Intern.
Broth.
of Teamsters, etc. v. Oliver , 358 U.S. 283, 295 , 79 S.Ct. 297 , 3 L.Ed.2d 312 , National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp. , 301 U.S. 1, 33 , 57 S.Ct. 615 , 81 L.Ed. 893 , and National Labor Relations Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, Inc. , 303 U.S. 261, 266 , 58 S.Ct. 571 , 82 L.Ed. 831 .
They point out that collective bargaining in the railroad industry long antedated the enactment of the Act, especially in the operating crafts, and that it was enacted to prevent unilateral determinations by the carriers.
They assert that the promulgation which they now attack would confer on the Carriers just such power of unilateral determination.
In referring to the legislative history of the Act, counsel for the Organizations cite Representative Casey on the floor of the House, when he said, concerning the 1924 bill ( 65 Cong.Rec.
8923 ): The Organizations' cause of action is set forth in the amended complaint as follows: Section 2 They rely particularly upon 2 , First and Seventh ( 45 U.S.C.A. 152 , First and Seventh), and 6 of the Railway Labor Act as indicating that congress intended to achieve stability in conditions and rules under which railway employees perform their services.
Section 2 , First, provides: Section 2 , Seventh, provides: section 156 Section 6 of the Act reads: section 155 The Supreme Court described the nature of the procedures provided by the Railway Labor Act which we deem relevant here, in Elgin, Joliet & Eastern Ry. Co. v. Burley , 325 U.S. 711 , at 724, 65 S.Ct. 1282 , at 1290, 87 L.Ed. 1886 (1945), where the court said, that, to induce agreement for the settlement of disputes, the first of three stages required its negotiation, which seeks voluntary action by both sides, in the sense that agreement is sought and cannot be compelled.
At 725, 65 S.Ct. at 1290 , the court added: 7 Brotherhood of R. R.] Trainmen v. Toledo, P. & W. R. Co. 321 U.S. 50 64 S.Ct. 413 88 L.Ed. 534 10 5 In Terminal Assn.
of St. Louis v. Trainmen , 318 U.S. 1, 6 , 63 S.Ct. 420, 423 , 87 L.Ed. 571 , the court made these observations which are pertinent here: 29 U.S.C. 151 The federal interest that is fostered is to see that disagreement about conditions does not reach the point of interfering with interstate commerce That language suggests this quotation from National Labor Relations Board v. American Ins. Co. , 343 U.S. 395, 402 , 72 S.Ct. 824, 828 , 96 L.Ed. 1027 : In State of California v. Taylor , 353 U.S. 553, 566 , 77 S.Ct. 1037, 1044 , 1 L.Ed.2d 1034 , speaking of the Railway Labor Act and its machinery for conciliation, mediation, arbitration and adjustment of disputes, the court said: and also While in this case both parties recognize that collective bargaining between the Organizations and the Carriers is required by the Railway Labor Act, Virginian Ry. v. System Federation , 300 U.S. 515 , 57 S.Ct. 592 , 81 L.Ed. 789 , we know of no requirement as to precise form or method of such bargaining.
For that reason, we conclude that the conferences between the respective parties on individual railroads, following the service on November 2, 1959 of the Carriers' notices, were steps in collective bargaining and that the same is true of the national conferences thereupon held and extending through October 17, 1960.
Furthermore it is our opinion that the October 17, 1960 agreement between the Carriers and the Organizations providing for a commission, as hereinbefore set forth, is to be considered as another step in collective bargaining, especially inasmuch as it was expressly agreed that the Commission's mediatory efforts and report should be considered and accepted as in lieu of the somewhat similar procedure provided by the Railway Labor Act.
In reviewing the history of the Carriers' notice of proposed rule changes on November 2, 1959, we find that these proposals were a proper subject of bargaining procedures and at all levels as required by law.
Significantly the proffer of arbitration by the National Mediation Board, although accepted by the Carriers, was rejected by the Organizations.
4 While the Organizations participated in the various procedures, their refusal to conform to the results reached by the machinery set up for the purpose of avoiding interruption to commerce reduced their participation in the various steps of negotiation to a mere "sterile discussion" of differences, thus placing the Carriers in a position to exercise their prerogatives to unilaterally put into effect their proposed changes, unless proscribed by the Railroad Labor Act.
National Labor Relations Board v. American Ins. Co., ante 11.
We have reached the following conclusions which are applicable to the situation now before us: 2.
While disclaiming any contention that a carrier may not, after complying with the procedural requirements of the Act and failing to reach agreement, change the rules governing the employment relation, the Organizations argue "that unilaterally established rules must be rules and not a 'rule' that there shall be no rules, and that such a 'rule' that there shall be no rules can be established, if at all, only by agreement".
In view of this contention we have examined the contents of the promulgation under attack and we find that a set of rules is contained in three articles entitled: I--Use of Firemen (Helpers) on Other Than Steam Power II--Basis of Pay and Assignment of Employees III--Consist of Crews.
While the length of this opinion does not permit our including a reproduction of the material set forth in the promulgation, we have examined it carefully and find that it is a statement of detailed rules affecting the work and pay of the operating employees of the railroads.
It is not in any way subject to the criticism of being a rule that there shall be no rules.
Moreover, a rule regulating the work of operating employees on a railroad is by its nature subject to change.
It is not like the immutable laws of the Medes and Persians.
It is subject to alteration from time to time consistently with the duties of the carriers to the employees and the public which uses their lines.
We conclude that the promulgation of these rules was an act of management within the area in which the Carriers had a right to exercise their prerogatives without consulting or obtaining approval of the representatives of their employees, after the Carriers' required submission to collective bargaining had been frustrated by the Organizations, although they had a legal right to do so. 3.
Having reached that conclusion, we are compelled by the course pursued by the Organizations through the various procedures, culminating in their rejection of a proffer of arbitration by the National Mediation Board, to hold that such conduct by the Organizations justified the railroads putting into effect the original rules reannounced in their promulgation of August 6, 1962.
4.
The Organizations in this court make a separate attack upon the promulgation of August 6, 1962 by charging that it "is susceptible of the interpretation that it announces the repudiation of 'craft' or 'class' in certain situations, a concept at the very heart of the Railway Labor Act."
However, the Carriers call our attention to the fact, which is not denied by the Organizations, that this contention was not raised in the district court, either by argument or in the complaint, as amended.
This statement is not questioned by the Organizations in their subsequent reply brief.
This contention comes too late now.
However, we have given consideration to the point raised and as a result are of the opinion that the Carriers are right in the assertion which they have made, and which we repeat: 5.
We are aware that the Organizations clearly informed the district court in their complaint, as amended, that We would like to believe that this unnecessary threat of a strike of such magnitude as to amount to a national transportation paralysis was ill-advised.
If we are wrong in that assumption, then we shall remind the persons responsible that they are dealing with railroad properties which are impressed with a public interest, which is paramount to that of all the litigants in this case. Always invisibly present as a nonparticipating party, at the bargaining table and at every stage thereafter, have been the people of the United States, to whose interest that of the Organizations and the Carriers is subordinate.
Through their representatives in congress, the people may resort to such governmental power as is necessary to assert their superiority to any private interest, whether corporate or otherwise.
The Carriers enjoy a regulated monopoly in their field.
The Organizations enjoy an immunity from the restrictions of antitrust laws.
These references suggest only some of the ways in which the people might respond if any party to this suit resorts to an economic force which would jeopardize the nation, more than the opposing litigant in this case. For the reasons which we have set forth herein, the order of the district court dismissing the complaint, as amended, and denying a motion for a preliminary injunction is affirmed.
Order affirmed
