 JERTBERG , Circuit Judge.
This case is before the court upon the petition of Servette, Inc. to review a decision and order of the National Labor Relations Board dismissing an unfair labor practice complaint which had issued upon charges filed by petitioner.
The Board's decision is reported at 133 NLRB p. 1501 (Oct. 30, 1961).
The case involves an attempt by the Wholesale Delivery Drivers and Salesmen's Union, Local No. 848, to force several retail markets to cease doing business with petitioner with whom the Union was having a labor dispute.
It was charged that the Union activity was proscribed by 8(b)(4) (i)(ii)(B) of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended 29 U.S.C. 158(b)(4)(i)(ii)(B) .
1 The primary facts are not in dispute.
Petitioner is a wholesale distributor of specialty merchandise such as candy, liquor, holiday supplies and specialty articles in the area of Los Angeles, California.
Included in such merchandise are brand name products, i. e., GOOD SEASON SALAD DRESSING and OLD LONDON PRODUCTS.
Kory's Markets, Inc., McDaniels Markets and Daylight Markets (herein referred to as Kory, McDaniels and Daylight) separately operate chain retail food supermarkets in the area of Los Angeles, California.
All of such markets regularly and customarily purchase, handle, stock and sell products distributed by petitioner.
In early February, 1960, as a result of a labor dispute with petitioner, the above named Union engaged in a strike against petitioner and picketed petitioner's warehouse located in Los Angeles.
From February 3rd through March 10th, 1960, the Union, in aid and support of its strike against petitioner, engaged in a campaign to enlist the aid and cooperation of Kory, McDaniels and Daylight to cease doing business with petitioner.
In its efforts to win the labor dispute with petitioner, agents of the Union engaged in the following conduct and practices: 1.
Told the manager of McDaniels Market No. 14 that the Union had a labor dispute with petitioner.
Asked him to cooperate by not dealing with petitioner and by taking petitioner's merchandise off his shelves.
Told him that if he failed to cooperate they would pass out handbills to customers.
Handbills were passed out but the manager continued his purchases from petitioner.
The handbills passed out at this market, as well as at other markets herein mentioned, read as follows: "To THE PATRONS OF THIS STORE"
