 KOELSCH , Circuit Judge.
Invoking Section 9 of the Universal Military Training and Service Act of 1948, 50 U.S.C. War App., 459 , plaintiffs brought this suit against the Magma Copper Company to recover holiday and vacation pay which they assert is due them.
Magma's employees were entitled to such pay under a series of contracts entered into between Magma and International Union of Mine, Mill & Smelter Workers, which represented the employees.
The following provisions are pertinent to this case: 9-8 Vacations 12-2 Holiday Pay 1 Plaintiffs were all employees of Magma immediately before entering into the armed services of the United States.
Following their satisfactory completion of service they were restored to proper positions by Magma.
The several claims they asserted were virtually the same; the facts were all stipulated and the issues purely legal ones.
Those relating to the claim of Stephen R. Eagar are fairly representative.
Eagar was continuously employed by Magma from March 12, 1958 until March 6, 1959, when he entered into military service.
By the latter date he had already worked in excess of 75% of the shifts available in his vacation earning year (i.e., March 12, 1958 to March 12, 1959).
Following his return on May 2, 1962 he worked the last scheduled shift prior to and the first scheduled shift after the Memorial Day and Independence Day holidays.
Magma refused his demand for vacation pay for the year commencing March 12, 1958 and for holiday pay for the two mentioned holidays.
The grounds for refusal were that (a) as to vacation pay, he was not in the service of the Company at the end of his vacation earning year as required by the contract and (b) as to holiday pay, that he had not been on the Company payroll for the required period prior to either holiday.
The district court, however, rejected Magma's contentions and entered judgment for the plaintiffs.
Magma has appealed.
The proposition is well established that present Section 9(b) B(i) of the Act [50 U.S.C. App. 459(b) B(i)] which requires the employer to restore a returning veteran to a position of like "seniority status and pay," means that "[h]e (the veteran) shall be 'restored without loss of seniority' and be considered 'as having been on furlough or leave of absence' during the period of his service for his country, with all of the insurance and other benefits accruing to employees on furlough or leave of absence.
8(c) .
Thus he does not step back on the seniority escalator at the point he stepped off.
He steps back on at the precise point he would have occupied had he kept his position continuously during the war."
Fishgold v. Sullivan Drydock & Repair , 328 U.S. 275, 284-285 , 66 S.Ct. 1105, 1111 , 90 L.Ed. 1230 (1946).
In every instance where the issue has been presented, the courts have consistently held that the statute treats of two types of benefits: (a) "seniority, status and pay" and (b) "insurance and other benefits"; that "seniority" includes rights which automatically accrue as a direct incident of length of job tenure--"a prerequisite of seniority" [ Siaskiewicz v. General Electric Co. , 166 F.2d 463, 466 (2d Cir. 1948)]; that "other benefits" cover "a fairly narrow group of economic advantages whose common quality [is] that they [are] miscellaneous fringe benefits not usually regarded as part of 'pay,' 'status,' or 'seniority'" [ Borges v. Art Steel Co. , 246 F.2d 735 (2d Cir. 1957)]; and that although "seniority" rights cannot lawfully be denied or diminished, the enjoyment of "other benefits" is governed by established rules and practices relating to employees on furlough or leave of absence in effect with the employer at the time such person (i. e., the veteran) was inducted.
Siaskiewicz v. General Electric Co. , supra ; Borges v. Art Steel Co. , supra ; Dougherty v. General Motors , 176 F.2d 561 (3d Cir. 1949).
See also Dwyer v. Crosby Co. , 167 F.2d 567 (2d Cir. 1948).
They have said, to quote from Borges , that "Vacation pay is of this fringe character, and we have previously refused to let returning veterans collect it if non-veterans on leave of absence do not get it."
Speaking of the Siaskiewicz , Borges and Dougherty cases, appellees label them "plainly inapplicable" and incorrectly decided.
They argue that "were it not for the interruption for military service, each of the appellees would, by the mere passage of time, have received the vacation and holiday benefits claimed."
This, of course is a completely erroneous assumption which ignores the language of the statute and flies directly in the face of the express eligibility provisions of the labor agreements.
2 In sum, we are in accord with the following quotation from the Siaskiewicz case: This same rationale dictates the same conclusion with respect to the claims for holiday pay.
The judgment of the district court is reversed and the action is dismissed.
No costs are allowed.
