 CECIL , Senior Circuit Judge.
These cases are on appeal by Thomas Parisi and Charles Joseph O'Brien, defendants-appellants, from a judgment of conviction in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division.
These appellants, whom we will call defendants, along with one Sam Salvatore Finazzo, were jointly indicted on a three-count indictment charging them with unlawfully removing certain merchandise from a bonded area at the Detroit Harbor Terminal and from the custody and control of the United States Customs Service, in violation of Section 549 , Title 18, U.S.C. 1 The first count charged that they removed fourteen cases containing marble slabs and table tops, with identifying markings, on or about March 19, 1963.
The second count charged the removal of a marble statue of St.
Theresa on or about March 18, 1963.
The third count charged that they removed twenty-one cases containing brass valves and fittings and chrome valve handles on or about March 18, 1963.
Each count, 2 except as to the date and description of merchandise removed, is identical in terms of the offense charged.
The trial judge sustained a motion for a judgment of acquittal, on behalf of Finazzo, at the close of the government's testimony.
The defendant Parisi was found guilty on the second and third counts and the defendant O'Brien was found guilty on all three counts of the indictment.
Parisi was sentenced to imprisonment for eighteen months and O'Brien for one year and one day.
The merchandise involved in the indictment had been a part of the cargo of the SS Montrose which sank in the Detroit river on July 30, 1962.
Some of this merchandise was salvaged in September 1962, while the ship was still submerged.
The remainder of the cargo was removed from the ship in November 1962, after it was refloated.
All of this salvaged cargo was taken to the Detroit Harbor Terminal.
The merchandise was placed under a General Order by the Collector of Customs upon its discharge from the ship.
(Physical possession taken by Collector of Customs who holds it until final disposition is made.)
The insurance company advertised the merchandise for sale and a Mr. Mularoni, who was the highest bidder, purchased some of the items which are the subject of the three counts of the indictment.
A few days later Mr. Mularoni received a telephone call from Arrow Salvage Company.
As a result of this call he went to the office of Arrow Salvage Company and, upon being shown some merchandise, identified it as the merchandise he had bought the week before.
Mr. Mularoni notified the customs officers and the next day he went back to Arrow Salvage Company in company with customs officers.
They met the defendant Thomas Parisi who showed them the merchandise and who claimed that it was his.
Part of it was identified as merchandise previously purchased by Mularoni.
Other items were identified as part of the cargo of the Montrose and which had been in storage at Detroit Harbor Terminal.
Later, the defendants O'Brien and Salvatore Finazzo came in.
After some questioning all three men were arrested and were subsequently charged in the indictment now before the Court.
Among the various assignments of error both defendants claim that the indictment does not state an offense.
Since each count of the indictment is subject to the same objection made by defendants, we will refer to them as the indictment.
The charge that the indictment is fatally defective and does not state an offense is based on two grounds.
1.
It does not allege that the defendants acted knowingly or wilfully or with felonious intent; and 2.
It does not set out with requisite specificity the offense, under the general statutory description, with which the defendants are charged.
In support of the first claim of deficiency, the defendants cite Hughes v. United States , 338 F.2d 651 , 340 F.2d 609 , C.A.1.
This case is analogous to the case at bar but the district judge did not follow it and neither do we.
In United States v. Deutch , 98 U.S.App.D.C.
356 , 235 F.2d 853, 854 , the court held an indictment sufficient which charged that the defendant "'unlawfully refused to answer' five specific questions put to him by a Committee of Congress."
This was a prosecution under Section 192 , Title 2, U.S.C.
This statute contained two offenses: The court said: So in the case before us, "unlawfully remove" has the same effect as "unlawfully refused to answer."
To the same effect is Logsdon v. United States , 253 F.2d 12, 13-14 , C.A.6; Madsen v. United States , 165 F.2d 507 , C.A.10; United States v. Williams , 202 F.2d 712, 713 , rehearing den.
203 F.2d 572 , C.A.5, cert. den.
346 U.S. 822 , 74 S.Ct. 37 , 98 L.Ed. 347 ; United States v. Amorosa , 167 F.2d 596, 597 , C.A.3; United States v. Silver , 235 F.2d 375 , C.A.2, cert. den.
352 U.S. 880 , 77 S.Ct. 102 , 1 L.Ed.2d 88 .
In Madsen v. United States , supra , the court said, 165 F.2d at p. 509 : In Hartwell v. United States , 107 F.2d 359 , at p. 362, C.A.5, the court said: In Duke v. United States , 233 F.2d 897 , at p. 899, C.A.5, the court said: See also Risken v. United States , 197 F.2d 959, 962 , C.A.8; 4 Anderson's Wharton's Criminal Law and Procedure, Section 1749 , p. 538; United States v. Debrow , 346 U.S. 374, 376 , 74 S.Ct. 113 , 98 L.Ed. 92 .
The claim that the indictment does not describe the offense with specificity is without merit.
Each count of the indictment describes exactly what merchandise was removed, the date that it was alleged to have been removed and that it was in violation of Section 549 , Title 18, U.S.C.
This section defines the offense without reference to any other statute.
The defendants would have no difficulty in knowing with what crime they were charged.
Neither would there be any danger of the defendants being prosecuted a second time for the same offense.
The district judge gave a scholarly opinion on the subject of the sufficiency of the indictment and we are in agreement with it.
255 F.Supp.
755 .
We conclude that the indictment is valid and that it is "a plain, concise and definite written statement of the essential facts constituting the offense charged," as required by Rule 7(c) of the F.R.Cr.P.
One assignment of error on behalf of the defendant O'Brien is that the evidence is insufficient to sustain a conviction.
The rule for an appellate court in determining the sufficiency of the evidence is stated in Ross v. United States , 197 F.2d 660, 665 , C.A.6, as quoted with approval from United States v. Manton , 107 F.2d 834, 839 , C.A.2, cert. den.
309 U.S. 664 , 60 S.Ct. 590 , 84 L.Ed. 1012 : We have read all of the evidence submitted to us in the appendices and considering it in the most favorable light to the government, it is such that, if believed, the jury could draw reasonable inferences to support a guilty finding against the defendant O'Brien.
One cannot read the evidence without concluding that O'Brien was the one who was instrumental in having the merchandise removed.
The question then was one of intent and that was a matter for the jury to determine under all of the facts and circumstances of the case.
We agree with the trial judge that there was sufficient evidence to support the conviction of O'Brien.
One of the assignments of error urged on behalf of the defendant Parisi is that the trial court erred in not granting his motion for acquittal.
The record shows that no motion for acquittal was made for defendant Parisi after verdict in accordance with Rule 29(c) F.R.Cr.P.
Such motions were made during the progress of the trial.
These motions raise a question as to the sufficiency of the evidence.
We are of the opinion that there was ample evidence to support the conviction of the defendant Parisi.
Both defendants assign as error that the trial judge erred in instructing the jury as a matter of law that Area B was within the limits of a bonded warehouse.
In our opinion what constituted a bonded warehouse was a question of law and it was the duty of the trial judge, in the absence of conflicting testimony on the subject, to instruct the jury as a matter of law that Area B met the requirements for a Class 4 Bonded Warehouse.
This required the trial judge to interpret several statutes and regulations.
We agree with the interpretation and analysis of the statutes and regulations as made by the trial judge in his opinion denying the motions for a new trial, as reported at 255 F.Supp.
755 , and conclude that there was no error in this respect.
Another claim made on behalf of defendant O'Brien is that the trial judge erred in charging the jury in such a manner that the jury could find that the defendant O'Brien had possession of the property involved, and that it could draw inferences against him of guilty knowledge and participation in the unlawful removal of the property.
In support of this claim, a paragraph of the instruction, taken out of context, is quoted in the brief.
Reading the entire instruction on this subject we conclude that the jury could not possibly find that the instruction with reference to inferences to be drawn from recently removed property could apply to the defendant O'Brien.
We find no error in this respect.
Both defendants claim that the court erred in not charging the jury that in order to convict it was necessary for the jury to find that the defendants knew that the merchandise was in a bonded warehouse.
This request was refused by the court for the reason that the statute does not make knowledge that the area, from which the merchandise was taken, was bonded an element of the offense.
No cases are cited to the effect that knowledge that the warehouse was a bonded warehouse is an essential element of the crime.
Hargrove v. United States , 67 F.2d 820 , 90 A.L.R. 1276, C.A.5, cited by counsel, in our opinion is not applicable.
The question here is whether the trial court erred in not charging the jury that "a specific wrongful intent, that is, actual knowledge of the existence of obligation and a wrongful intent to evade it, is of the essence."
The court said, at p. 823: To the same effect is Babb v. United States , 252 F.2d 702, 708 , C.A.5, cert. den.
356 U.S. 974 , 78 S.Ct. 1137 , 2 L.Ed. 1147 , also cited by counsel for defendant.
In our opinion the case before us is in the first class of cases described in Hargrove , supra .
In Hughes v. United States , supra , the court held that a felonious intent was a necessary element of the crime but it did not hold that a felonious intent to remove property from a bonded warehouse had to be coupled with a knowledge that the warehouse was bonded.
We find no error on the part of the trial judge in rejecting the proffered charge.
Both defendants assign as error the failure of the trial judge to grant a new trial, for the reason that one of the jurors, Francis L. Tickner, failed to disclose that he had been an employee of government witness William P. Young, the president of the Detroit Harbor Terminal.
There is attached, as an exhibit, to the motion of the defendant O'Brien for a new trial an affidavit of the witness William P. Young.
According to this affidavit, Young is the sole owner of a Michigan corporation known as Better Brands Distributing Company.
Approximately fifteen years prior to January 1965, this corporation was operated at 4461 West Jefferson Street in Detroit, Michigan, the premises of Detroit Harbor Terminal.
Juror Francis L. Tickner had been employed by Better Brands Distributing Company about fifteen years prior to the time of the trial.
He was so employed for a little more than a year and worked under the supervision of Mr. Young.
It was further stated in the affidavit that on one afternoon during the progress of the trial, the juror recognized Mr. Young and told him that he had retired as a brewery truck driver.
All of the questions of the court directed to the prospective jurors in voir dire related to connections with Detroit Harbor Terminal.
The juror never worked for Detroit Harbor Terminal and had no dealings or connection with it, so far as is shown by the record before us.
One of the prospective jurors, a Mr. Buick, responded that he had had a brief contact with Mr. Young whom he believed was vice president of Detroit Harbor Terminal.
This is the only reference to Mr. Young in the voir dire.
From this, counsel for the defendant argues that the juror should have volunteered that he too had known Mr. Young.
We do not think that this logically follows and that the juror can be charged with witholding information.
Juror Tickner was not a party to the colloquy between the court and Mr. Buick and he may not have been alert to the significance of it.
Furthermore, he might well have not realized that the Young who is now president of Detroit Harbor Terminal was the Young for whom he worked at Better Brands fifteen years before.
Indeed, he may have had no recognition of Mr. Young until he saw him on the witness stand.
Under these circumstances we think the juror was not called upon to make a spontaneous response.
It is argued by counsel for the government that the defendants were made aware of this matter while the trial was in progress and that they did not make timely objection to it.
This assumes that counsel became aware of it at the time Mr. Young testified.
This is not necessarily true and we do not find anything in the record to show when counsel first learned of the acquaintance.
If it is true that counsel learned of it when Mr. Young testified, then the government's point is well taken.
Frazier v. United States , 335 U.S. 497, 512 , 69 S.Ct. 201 , 93 L.Ed. 187 ; Spivey v. United States , 109 F.2d 181, 186 , C.A.5, cert. den.
310 U.S. 631 , 60 S.Ct. 1079 , 84 L.Ed. 1401 .
Finally, it is claimed that the court erred in not granting a new trial to O'Brien for the reason that government counsel made prejudicial comment on his failure to testify.
The basis of this claim is the statement of government counsel "And there is no contradiction of that at all in this record," taken out of context 3 from counsel's rebuttal argument.
A motion for mistrial was made on behalf of the defendant O'Brien.
Authorities 4 were cited which tend to hold that a statement to the effect that there is no contradiction in the record when only the defendant, who did not take the witness stand, could make the contradiction, amounts to prejudicial comment on the failure of the witness to testify.
Taken in the entire context of the argument of counsel, we do not think the statement constitutes comment on the failure of the defendant O'Brien to take the witness stand and to testify in his own behalf.
We are of the opinion that the district judge gave an adequate and correct summary of the incident in his opinion denying the motion for new trial.
He said: In support of his ruling the court cited 23A C.J.S.
Criminal Law 1098 , p. 172; 8 Wigmore, Evidence, Sec. 2272, p. 436; People v. Earl , 299 Mich. 579 , 300 N.W. 890 .
See Langford v. United States , 178 F.2d 48 , at p. 55, C.A.9, cert. den.
339 U.S. 938 , 70 S.Ct. 669 , where the court said: We are asked, on behalf of the defendant Parisi, to find as plain error under Rule 52(b) F.R.Cr.P.
the giving of a charge which was given in the language requested by counsel representing the defendant at the trial.
The charge reads as follows: "I charge you that the defendant Parisi must have taken part in this transaction with an unlawful intent--in other words, a consciousness of guilt--" The court added to that "and that would apply, of course, to both defendants."
This part of the charge followed a statement to the effect that if the jury found that either defendant reasonably believed the property to be abandoned property, the jury should acquit such defendant.
It is claimed that the objectionable instruction virtually directed the jury to return a verdict against the defendant Parisi.
While the charge was framed in a poor choice of language, it is obvious what counsel meant at the time it was submitted.
It is really in the subjunctive and not a statement of a fact.
What it says, very poorly, is that Parisi must have had an unlawful intent before he could be found guilty.
We think counsel, the Court and the jury understood it.
We find no merit to this assignment of error.
The district judge concluded that the three counts of the indictment constituted but one offense and he gave each of the defendants only one sentence.
We find no error in this respect.
The judgment of the District Court is affirmed as to both defendants.
