 O'SULLIVAN , Circuit Judge.
Upon the Supreme Court of Ohio's certification to us that respondent John Ruffalo, Jr., had been indefinitely suspended from the practice of law, we ordered that "John Ruffalo, Jr., show cause if any he has, on or before May 12, 1965, why he should not be stricken from the roll of counsel of this Court."
After extensions granted at the request of respondent, we received his response and brief, as well as a brief amicus curiae by the Ohio State Bar Association in support of the Ohio Supreme Court's order, and the cause has now been argued to a panel of this Court.
In 1962, the Mahoning County Bar Association filed with the Ohio Board of Bar Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline, charges of professional misconduct against respondent Ruffalo.
The said Board is made up of seventeen members of the Ohio Bar, chosen, one each, from Ohio's seventeen judicial districts.
They are appointed by the Supreme Court of Ohio, pursuant to its Rule XXVII(1) and (3) 1 , 167 Ohio St. lxxvii , and act as an arm of that Court.
[**133] Fourteen alleged instances of misconduct made up the charges against respondent.
The Board of Commissioners convened a panel of three of its members to take evidence on these charges and make an initial report.
The charges covered generally acts of solicitation of FELA cases, maintenance of persons asserting claims, attempted bribery, and hiring a railroad employee, Michael Orlando, to act as an undercover agent to assist Ruffalo in soliciting and investigating cases against various railroads, including Orlando's employer, the B & O Railroad.
The panel conducted hearings which extended from December 26, 1962, to August 16, 1963, testimony taken comprising 1,034 pages of transcript.
The panel report sustained seven and dismissed seven of the charges.
It was unanimously adopted by the seventeen member Board of Commissioners.
The charges sustained involved solicitation, maintenance of clients, attempted bribery to dissuade a witness from testifying against Ruffalo, and the use of Orlando as an undercover agent.
The Findings of Fact, Conclusions and Recommendation of the Board were returned to the Ohio Supreme Court.
The Recommendation of the Board was that "Respondent be disbarred."
The Ohio Court sustained charge 8, maintenance of clients, and 13, use of the undercover agent Orlando.
It gave judgment that Ruffalo "be suspended for an indefinite period of time from the practice of law."
Mahoning County Bar Association v. Ruffalo , 176 Ohio St. 263 , 199 N.E.2d 396 , 8 A.L.R.3d 1142 (1964).
Certiorari was denied by the Supreme Court of the United States.
Ruffalo v. Mahoning County Bar Association , 379 U.S. 931 , 85 S.Ct. 328 , 13 L.Ed.2d 342 (1964).
Five members of the Ohio Court joined in the majority opinion, a sixth member concurred in the result, and the seventh dissented.
As to five of the charges sustained by the Board of Commissioners covering solicitation, and attempted bribery to dissuade a witness from testifying against Ruffalo, the Ohio majority said, [**134] In deciding that Ruffalo should be suspended from practice, the Ohio Court, in addition to its consideration of the current charges, recited and took into account the fact that in 1957 Ruffalo had been found "guilty of unprofessional conduct in his office as an attorney at law in that he did by and through duly authorized agents and employees solicit professional employment from sundry people."
Following the Ohio Supreme Court decision, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern Division, pursuant to its own rule, commenced an inquiry as to the fitness of Mr. Ruffalo to continue as a practitioner in that Court.
The District Judge had before him the record and proceedings which culminated in the decision of the Ohio Supreme Court.
He disagreed, however, with that decision and refused to suspend Ruffalo from practice in the District Court.
In re Ruffalo , 249 F.Supp.
432 (N.D. Ohio, E. Div. 1965).
However, he withheld the entry of a final order, reciting that "In the event that the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals reaches a different conclusion, this Court will reconsider its findings."
The matter before us is not an appeal from the said District Court, but is our own consideration of Ruffalo's standing as a practitioner in this Court.
We should preliminarily observe that our own Rule 6(3), prior to recent amendment, could be read as automatically striking from our roll of counsel the name of any lawyer disbarred in any court of record.
It has been amended and we consider this matter in keeping with the requirements and admonitions of Theard v. United States , 354 U.S. 278 , 77 S.Ct. 1274 , 1 L.Ed.2d 1342 (1957) and Selling v. Radford , 243 U.S. 46 , 37 S.Ct. 377 , 61 L.Ed. 585 (1917).
These decisions forbid Federal Courts from acting in total reliance on a state judgment.
We have before us, and have reviewed, the entire record developed by the Ohio proceedings, but think it proper to dispose of the matter primarily upon the charges on which the Ohio Court [**135] disciplined Mr. Ruffalo.
2 The facts as to these are not in dispute.
We consider whether we find insupportable the Ohio Court's determination that such facts disclosed unprofessional conduct warranting the discipline imposed and whether they warrant similar discipline by us.
The facts as to charge No. 8 are that Ruffalo, during the pendency of their FELA cases, advanced living expenses to three clients.
This conduct was found to offend Canons 10 and 42 of the Canons of Professional Ethics.
Canon 10 declares that: and Canon 42 provides that: On this subject, we set out the following extract from the Findings of the Board of Commissioners: [**136] The Supreme Court of Ohio, in agreement with Opinion No. 288 of the Professional Ethics Committee of the American Bar Association, 41 A.B.A.
Journal 33 (Jan. 1955) 3 expressed its view that, In the case of Dombey et al.
v. Detroit, Toledo & Ironton Railroad , 351 F.2d 121 (C.A. 6, 1965) we recognized the Ruffalo opinion as apparently announcing the law of Ohio, albeit that it appeared to overrule earlier Ohio decisions.
While we are not here required to follow Ohio law, we have thus been made aware of the thinking of its Bar and Supreme Court.
The bar of Ohio, acting under its laws and the control of the Supreme Court of that state has a responsibility to maintain the prestige and integrity that should, without exceptions to expediency, be marks of a profession of which we also are members.
We may, therefore, give respect to the product of its effort to arrive at [**137] and express conceptions as to what is and what is not unprofessional conduct by any Ohio lawyer whom we have admitted to practice before us.
We need not, and do not, announce a rule for this Circuit that, standing alone, the conduct involved in Charge No. 8 (the furnishing of living expenses to his clients) would prompt us to discipline Ruffalo.
We do not reach that question.
We are satisfied that with Ruffalo's previous conviction in 1957 of solicitation, and the conduct making up Charge 13, there is sufficient to permit us, consistent with "principles of right and justice," to "allow the natural consequences of the judgment [of the Supreme Court of Ohio] to have their effect *," Selling v. Radford , 243 U.S. 46, 51 , 37 S.Ct. 377, 379 , 61 L.Ed. 585 , and strike Mr. Ruffalo's name from the roll of counsel admitted to practice in this Court.
The admitted facts of Charge No. 13 are that Ruffalo, apparently a specialist in FELA cases, hired Michael Orlando, an employee of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, to act under cover as his agent in investigating cases against various railroads.
This under cover work included investigating and obtaining evidence to be used in Ruffalo's cases against Orlando's own employer, the B & O. The employment extended from 1953 to July 19, 1962, when Orlando was suspended by his railroad employer for allegedly soliciting claims (presumably on behalf of Ruffalo).
Ruffalo paid Orlando $25 per day, plus expenses for this work, which was carried on outside of Orlando's regular working hours as a railroad brakeman.
Through the years 1957 to 1961 this amounted to a total of $13,982.62, of which $4,176 was paid within the first six and one-half months of 1961.
This information had to be obtained from the Internal Revenue Form 1099 withholding slips.
No other records were available as Orlando was paid in cash, giving receipts to Ruffalo therefor.
Regular entries of these transactions were not made in Ruffalo's books and in response to the panel's subpoena to produce his relevant records, Ruffalo testified that whatever writings had been made were destroyed by him as soon as his income tax returns for 1962 and prior years had been examined by the Internal [**138] Revenue Service.
The Ohio Court's opinion covers this subject in detail and we recite this much of it: The Court's opinion quotes from Ruffalo's justification for the minimal record keeping and the destruction of whatever records had been made as follows: 176 Ohio St. 266 199 N.E.2d 399 The Ohio Court's reaction to the foregoing is portrayed by this excerpt: [**139] 176 Ohio St. 268, 269 199 N.E.2d 400 Its view that Ruffalo's conduct disqualified him for practice at Ohio's bar is thus expressed: 176 Ohio St. 266, 267 199 N.E.2d 400 176 Ohio St. 269 199 N.E.2d 401 The rules which should guide us here come from Theard v. United States , 354 U.S. 278 , 77 S.Ct. 1274 , 1 L.Ed.2d 1342 (1957), and Selling v. Radford , 243 U.S. 46 , 37 S.Ct. 377 , 61 L.Ed. 585 (1917).
In Theard , the Supreme Court remanded [**140] a disbarment case to the District Court which had disbarred an attorney on the assumption that a decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana foreclosed independent inquiry by the United States District Court.
The disbarment of Theard took place some eighteen years after the charged misconduct--the forgery of a promissory note--notwithstanding the fact that it was found that at the time of the forgery Theard "was suffering under an exceedingly abnormal mental condition, some degree of insanity," and notwithstanding that after release from an insane asylum and restoration to capacity he had for six years practiced law, arguing numerous cases before the Supreme Court of Louisiana without any charge of misconduct or impropriety.
This factual dissimilarity with the case before us is not of controlling significance, but does make quite understandable the Supreme Court's insistence on a Federal Court weighing the validity of the state court's conclusions.
Mr. Justice Frankfurter, writing the Theard opinion did observe, however, that: brings title deeds of high respect and emphasized that recognition should be accorded a state court judgment subject, however, to the rule expounded in Selling v. Radford , 243 U.S. 46 , 37 S.Ct. 377 , 61 L.Ed. 585 .
In that case the Supreme Court allowed an attorney who had been disbarred by the Michigan Supreme Court to show cause why he should not be disbarred in the United States Courts by bringing the record of the state court proceedings before it and filing a brief.
That opportunity has been afforded Ruffalo here, and we have followed the rule of Selling v. Radford, which we quote: that there was such an infirmity of [**141] proof as to facts found to have established the want of fair private and professional character as to give rise to a clear conviction on our part that we could not, consistently with our duty, accept as final the conclusion on that subject; 243 U.S. 46, 50, 51 37 S.Ct. 377, 379 61 L.Ed. 585, 586, 587, 588 Obedient to that rule, we have formed our own judgment, not, however, unconscious of the fact that six judges of the Ohio Supreme Court and seventeen lawyers of the Bar of Ohio, of such standing as to be selected to serve on the Board of Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline, have, after fair procedure, concluded that Mr. Ruffalo's conduct called for his suspension from practice.
We do not find in the record of the state proceedings, "Such an infirmity of proof as to the facts found to have established the want of [Ruffalo's] fair private and professional character" to lead us to a conviction that we cannot, consistent with our duty, "accept as final the conclusion" of the Supreme Court and the Ohio bar.
Able and distinguished counsel have urged us, on the merits, to disagree with Ohio's assessment of the facts now before us.
We consider this matter as judges, but we are aware that we are also members of the bar, sharing with our fellow lawyers a just pride in our profession and we are properly concerned that the legal profession be worthy of the respect that it asks today's society to accord it.
We have a responsibility not only to Mr. Ruffalo but also to the prestige of our own court.
We cannot find totally invalid the view that an experienced lawyer who hires a railroad employee to act as an undercover agent to obtain evidence and information for use in suits against his own employer, does not exhibit the fair character and integrity which must be a mark of a lawyer.
Ruffalo asserts that his use of cash to pay his agent, his failure to carry these [**142] transactions in his books, and his destruction of what records he did have were necessary to protect Orlando from reprisals by his regular employer.
The Ohio Bar, its Supreme Court and this Court had, and have, the right to draw inferences as to what this conduct portrays.
The absence of records would not hide what was going on if, when inquiry was made, both Orlando and Ruffalo told the truth.
What then was there to fear from honest record keeping?
Respondent argues that the Association of American Railroads was guilty of questionable practice in investigating the misconduct of Orlando and Ruffalo and that the American railroads historically have unfairly resisted and impeded the presentation of claims by their injured employees.
Unless we are ready to announce a rule that a lawyer may fight on any level chosen by his adversary, we are not here required to pass on such charges.
With the liberal use of our discovery practice, we consider that adequate preparation can be made without resorting to the methods chosen by Mr. Ruffalo.
We do not believe we should tell today's society that notwithstanding the respect we ask it to give us as a profession of skillful and high minded men, we do not have the ability to adequately represent our clients except through planting secret agents in the shops of those we call to account in the courts.
If this kind of espionage has become a way of life in some of today's business competition, such reality should not prompt us to say that no more is expected of today's lawyers than that they conform to the minimal standards of the market place.
Charge No. 13, the employment of Orlando, was added as a specification of misconduct during the course of the Board of Commissioners' hearing.
Mr. Ruffalo objected to this being done, and the Board advised him that he could have time to offer proofs in opposition to the charge.
The charge was based upon testimony of Ruffalo and Orlando already in the record.
No request was made for further time, and no additional proofs were offered by Ruffalo on the point.
We find no procedural impropriety in this regard.
Neither do his counsel raise the question here.
[**143] They do, however, assert deprivation of due process in that prior to Ruffalo's described use of Orlando, he was never told that such would be looked upon as misconduct.
They complain for him that no Canon of Ethics had ever been promulgated forbidding this practice.
We will not hold that due process requires that our bar associations anticipate every conceivable type of misconduct in which any of its members may indulge, and then fashion and announce a Canon of Ethics to fit each act of misconduct.
Surely our profession is not so morally and ethically naive as to need always advance definition of what is, and what is not, impermissible behavior.
This is an original proceeding in this Court.
We are not reviewing the ruling by the District Court.
Respectful of the careful consideration of the matter by the District Judge, we advise our disagreement with his conclusions.
While not controlling, we think it proper to observe that it would be most unseemly, considering the record in the case, to have the United States Courts accepting for practice before them a lawyer who has, after due process, been suspended from practice in the courts of his own state.
The name of John Ruffalo, Jr., is hereby stricken from the roll of counsel permitted to practice before this Court.
This discipline shall remain in force until the further order of this Court.
