 LEVENTHAL , Circuit Judge: This appeal concerns the provisions of the National Labor Relations Act ("Act"), 29 U.S.C. 141 et seq., applicable to jurisdictional disputes.
The particular jurisdictional dispute involves whether the job of applying a coat of mortar on a wall to be tiled should be given to the Plasterers or the Tile Setters (that is, to petitioner, Plasterers Local Union No. 79, Operative Plasterers and Cement Masons' International Assn., AFL-CIO, or to intervenor, Tile Terrazzo and Marble Setters Local Union No. 20 of the Bricklayers, Masons and Plasterers International Union).
Following a hearing pursuant to 10(k) of the National Labor Relations Act, 1 the National Labor Relations Board, hereafter "Board," awarded the work in dispute to the Tile Setters.
2 The issue is whether it was error for the Board to have conducted a 10(k) hearing after being timely advised that both unions had agreed to be bound by the decisions of the National Joint Board for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes, an arbitration panel established by the Building Trades Department, AFL-CIO, hereafter the "Joint Board."
The Plasterers claim the Joint Board awarded the work to them, 3 and that it was error for the Board to make a 10(k) determination.
The Board's position is that while it may not hold a 10(k) hearing when the parties to a jurisdictional dispute have agreed on a method for voluntary adjustment of the dispute, this bar does not arise unless all the parties to the dispute are bound by the voluntary adjustment procedure.
Because the Board considers the employer to be a party to the dispute, and because the employers making work assignments in the instant disputes were not bound by the determinations of the Joint Board, the Board contends that it properly held a 10(k) hearing.
These questions are before this court on the petition of Plasterers to review, and the cross-application of the Board to enforce, a June 27, 1968 order in which the Board found that Plasterers had committed an unfair labor practice in violation of 8(b) (4) (D) of the Act 4 by picketing Texas State Tile and Terrazzo Company (Texas State), and Martini Tile and Terrazzo Company (Martini), with the object of forcing these employers to assign the disputed work to employees represented by Plasterers.
5 We agree with the Plasterers that the Board may not properly proceed to determine a jurisdictional dispute pursuant to 10(k) when the disputing unions have agreed to settle their dispute through binding arbitration.
In as much as the Board's finding of an 8(b) (4) (D) violation incorporates and relies on [**149] an invalid 10(k) proceeding and award, the Board's order cannot be enforced.
I The Jurisdictional Disputes The focus of these jurisdictional disputes can be traced to the development in the mid-1950's of the thin-set or adhesive method of applying tile.
Previously it was necessary to set tile in a bed of wet plaster so that moisture would not be absorbed from the bonding agent before it hardened and formed a firm bond.
The application of this setting bed or float coat was the work of tile setters.
The thin-set method, on the other hand, employed new bonding agents which made it possible to apply tile directly to a smooth surface of dry plaster on a thin coat of dry-set mortar.
The Tile Setters contended that they should prepare this smooth plaster surface just as they had prepared the wet setting bed.
The Plasterers took the position that the tile setter was only entitled to apply his setting bed and that in the thin-set method it was the dry-set mortar and not the smooth and dry plaster surface which constituted the setting bed.
The order concerns picketing which was directed against two different employers, at the sites of two unrelated jobs.
The first was the M. D. Anderson Library Job at the University of Houston.
Southwestern Construction Co., the general contractor for an addition to the library, had subcontracted to Texas State, a tile contractor employing members of the Tile Setters Union, the work of preparing walls and applying tile to four stairwells and two restrooms on each floor of the eight story building.
The tile setters did their initial work in the lavatories where they applied the smooth coat of plaster.
The Plasterers claimed this work as theirs, and when this claim was rejected by Tile Setters they submitted the dispute to the Joint Board.
On November 9, 1966, the Joint Board awarded the work in dispute to the Plasterers except that "any coat to be applied wet the same day under tile" was to be placed by Tile Setters.
The award stated: "In the thin-set or adhesive method of applying tile to walls and ceilings, the plasterer shall apply the first and second coats of mortar that is the scratch coat and plumb coat.
The plasterers shall plumb, rod and square all walls, rod and level all ceilings and the tile setter shall apply the final setting bed for his tile."
Plasterers thereupon claimed the remaining work of applying a smooth plaster coat on the basis of the award.
The Tile Setters refused to relinquish the work, contending that the smooth plaster coat was the tile setter's "setting bed" and that therefore the Joint Board Award actually supported their claim.
On January 24, 1967, Plasterers established a picketline on the jobsite and a work stoppage ensued.
Southwestern Construction Company filed an unfair labor practice charge with the Board against Plasterers.
On February 10, 1967, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas granted the application of the Board's regional director for an injunction against the picketing and the pickets were removed.
On March 6, 1967, Plasterers requested that the Joint Board clarify its award in view of the contention of the Tile Setters that the award favored their claim.
On March 15, 1967, the Joint Board issued a clarification which is set out in part in the footnote.
6 The Joint Board made [**150] clear that the job of applying a smooth coat of plaster material to an initial scratch coat or to cement or clay tile walls was the work of the Plasterers unless the tile is set the same work day that such coat of plaster is applied.
The second job at which picketing occurred was at the Rainbo Bakery.
Here there was no general contractor.
Martini, who did not employ plasterers, had a direct contract with the owner calling for the tiling of two walls in one area of the bakery.
Tile setters undertook to perform the application of a smooth coat of plaster to metal lath which had been tacked to masonry walls, and the application of dry-set mortar and tile to this plaster surface.
The dispute was never submitted to the Joint Board.
On March 17, 1967, two days after the clarification by the Joint Board described above, Plasterers picketed the jobsite for the purpose of having transferred to them that part of the work consisting of application of the smooth coat.
II The NLRB Proceedings On April 6, 7 and 10 through 14, 1967, the Board held a consolidated 10(k) hearing to determine these jurisdictional disputes.
It issued its decision and determination on August 22, 1967.
The Board rejected the Plasterers' contention that the notice of hearing should be quashed because the disputing unions had agreed on a method for voluntary settlement.
It stated: "The Board has consistently held that the employer who assigned the disputed work must be a party to an agreement that purports to settle an existing jurisdictional dispute."
On the merits of the dispute, the Board examined what it considered to be the relevant factors and concluded that Tile Setters were entitled to the work in dispute inasmuch as there was no significant difference between the two employee groups in terms of skill, and the various factors involved were all consistent with the employers' assignment of the disputed work.
When Plasterers refused to comply with the Board's determination of the work disputes, the General Counsel of the Board issued a complaint against petitioner alleging a violation of 8(b) (4) (D) of the Act.
At the unfair labor practice hearing held on October 30, 1967, the parties agreed to submit on the record in the 10(k) proceeding.
In its decision and order of June 27, 1968, the Board again rejected Plasterers' claim that the 10(k) proceeding was improperly held and found that the union had violated 8(b) (4) (D).
The Board's order provides that the union shall cease and desist from the use of prohibited means to force or require Texas State or Martini to assign to Plasterers the disputed work at the Anderson Library and Rainbo jobs.
The Board also ordered that Plasterers take the affirmative action of posting a notice indicating their intention to abide by the Board's cease and desist order.
The Board's petition for enforcement is predicated on Plasterers' refusal to take this affirmative action.
III Mootness A motion to dismiss this case as moot has been filed by intervenor Tile Setters, and the other union intervenors associated with them. 7 They argue that mootness follows from the fact that the Anderson Library and Rainbo Bakery [**151] jobs have been completed and that the Board's cease and desist order now proscribes conduct in which it would be impossible for the Plasterers to engage.
Both Plasterers and the Board have filed memoranda arguing that the case is not moot.
Cease and desist orders of the Board aimed at remedying an unfair labor practice are frequently framed to account for changes in circumstances following the illegal practice.
However, the issue of whether an unfair labor practice occurred is not mooted because the particular job involved has been completed.
Local 74, United Brotherhood of Carpenters & Joiners v. NLRB , 341 U.S. 707, 715 , 71 S.Ct. 966 , 95 L.Ed. 1309 (1951); NLRB v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, Inc. , 303 U.S. 261, 271 , 58 S.Ct. 571 , 82 L.Ed. 831 (1938); NLRB v. Plumbers Union of Nassau County , 299 F.2d 497 (2d Cir. 1962).
There is precedent permitting the Board to quash a 10(k) proceeding where there could only be a stale hearing, held three years after the incident, and to dismiss the 8(b) (4) (D) complaint on the ground that "no affirmative order issued by the Board could have any effect on the parties to the original controversy since the work had long since been completed," Tip Top Roofers, Inc. v. NLRB , 324 F.2d 773 (5th Cir. 1963).
But here the Board has issued an affirmative order, requiring inter alia the posting of notices, and Plasterers has refused to comply.
We see no basis on this record for concluding that the Board acted impermissibly in viewing the controversy as being sufficiently broad and enduring to make appropriate affirmative relief.
If the posting order was lawful the Board was entitled to a judicial decree of enforcement.
The case is not moot.
IV Proper Construction of Section 10(k) of the National Labor Relations Act The Board's reliance on the 10(k) record and determination in reaching its conclusion that Plasterers had committed an unfair labor practice preserves the 10(k) issue as a part of the review of the unfair labor practice determination.
8 The case turns on the proper construction of 10(k) of the National Labor Relations Act, one of the provisions added by the Taft-Hartley Amendments of 1947 as a result of Congressional concern over work stoppages arising out of jurisdictional disputes between unions.
Another provision added at the same time was 8(b) (4) (D), set forth in the footnote, 9 which broadly prohibits a [**152] union from picketing and other actions to induce employees not to perform services for their employer with the object of forcing the employer to assign work to a particular union or craft.
Section 10(k) , also set forth in footnote 9, empowers the Board to determine the jurisdictional dispute out of which the unfair labor practice charge has arisen, unless, in the words of an abstention provision, "the parties to such dispute submit to the Board satisfactory evidence that they have adjusted, or agreed upon methods for the voluntary adjustment of, the dispute."
The Board held this abstention language of 10(k) inapplicable, even though the unions had agreed to be bound by the decisions of the Joint Board for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes--a joint board with representatives of employers and employees, 10 --on the ground that the employer was also a "party" and had not agreed to this method for voluntary adjustment.
In our view the Board erred in claiming authority under 10(k) of the Act to determine the merits of a jurisdictional dispute between two unions when the unions had agreed on a method for binding arbitration of their disputes.
Meaning of Abstention Provision of 10(k) The crucial abstention provision does not require voluntary adjustment, or agreement on a method for voluntary adjustment, on the part of all parties to the 8(b) (4) (D) proceeding, or even all parties to the 10(k) proceeding.
Abstention is commanded when "the parties to such dispute" have adjusted the dispute, or agreed on a method for the adjustment of the dispute.
The text of 10(k) shows that the term "such dispute" refers to the underlying jurisdictional "dispute out of which such unfair labor practice shall have arisen."
It is not the employer but the rival unions (or other employee groups) who are the parties to the jurisdictional dispute contesting which employees are entitled to seek the work in question.
Congress could have written 10(k) so that the employer would be a necessary party to a procedure for voluntary [**153] settlement by requiring agreement on such a procedure by both the parties to the unfair labor practice charge and the parties to the underlying dispute out of which that charge arises.
That Congress did not choose this approach but instead required only agreement by the unions involved in the underlying jurisdictional dispute is easily understood in the light of the refusal of Congress to bind the employer to the Board's determination of a jurisdictional dispute under 10(k) .
Rather than enacting a comprehensive solution to the work assignment problem, which would have required provision for binding the employer to a determination concerning who was entitled to the work, Congress went only so far as to assure that at least the employer would not be plagued by the failure of the disputing unions to resolve their dispute.
The fact that the employer is not bound by a 10(k) determination of the Board is persuasive evidence that Congress did not intend a voluntary procedure for adjustment to be held inadequate because the employer is not bound.
Although the precise question before us is in any meaningful sense, one of first impression in the federal court, 11 we find authority for our view not only in the text of 10(k) but also in judicial precedents construing the provisions of the Act dealing with jurisdictional disputes and in the legislative history and congressional purpose underlying these provisions.
Protection Pending Determination under Voluntary Procedure We interject preliminarily the observation that the provision for Board abstention pending resort to a voluntary adjustment procedure does not remove the machinery provided by the Act for interim protection against work stoppages.
Congress gave to the Board authority to insure that the jurisdictional dispute will not be the cause for further work stoppage while either voluntary procedures, or Board-conducted procedures for determination under 10(k) , are running their course.
Section 10(l) , quoted in the footnote, 12 authorizes the [**154] Board to seek a District Court injunction whenever the cognizant Board employee has reasonable cause to believe in the truth of a charge of an unfair labor practice violative of 8(b) (4) (D).
That injunction remains in effect "pending the final adjudication of the Board with respect to such matter."
Where the Board is conducting a 10(k) proceeding it must make a final determination under 10(k) before it may proceed to final adjudication of an 8(b) (4) (D) charge.
In a case governed by the abstention provision of 10(k) the proceeding on the 8(b) (4) (D) charge stays in being and is not dismissed unless and until the parties have not only agreed on methods for voluntary adjustment but have actually reached a voluntary adjustment of their dispute.
Thus the Act provides a "speedy remedy to preserve the status quo" 13 and avoids any hiatus in protection against forbidden means of pressing jurisdictional claims.
CBS Opinion Focusing on 10(k) we find guidance and indeed instruction on its meaning, its inter-relationship with 8(b) (4) (D), and the pertinent legislative history, in NLRB v. Radio and Television Broadcast Engineers Union [CBS] , 364 U.S. 573 , 81 S.Ct. 330 , 5 L.Ed.2d 302 (1961).
First, as to the meaning of the terms of 10(k) , the Supreme Court said ( 364 U.S. at 579 , 81 S.Ct. at 334 ): "[T]he clause 'the dispute out of which such unfair labor practice shall have arisen' can have no other meaning except a jurisdictional dispute under 8(b) (4) (D) which is a dispute between two or more groups of employees over which is entitled to do certain work for an employer."
Since a jurisdictional dispute for purposes of 10(k) is a "dispute between two or more groups of employees," it follows that these employee groups are "the parties to such dispute" for purposes of determining whether there exists a voluntary adjustment procedure within the abstention provision of 10(k).
Second, as to the purpose of 10(k) , the Court stressed that " 10(k) offers strong inducements to quarrelling unions to settle their differences *" 364 U.S. at 577 , 81 S.Ct. at 333 .
14 Where the quarrelling unions have agreed on a procedure for settling their differences, [**155] the purpose of 10(k) to induce settlement is manifestly served by respecting their use of the agreed procedure.
As to the purpose of 10(k) and 8(b) (4) (D) taken together, the Court noted that the legislative history contained a recognition of "the necessity of enacting legislation to protect employers from being 'the helpless victims of quarrels that do not concern them at all'," id. at 580-581 , 81 S.Ct. at 335 , i. e. to protect the neutral employer caught in the crossfire between the disputing unions and unable to satisfy either, in other words "caught between the devil and the deep blue."
364 U.S. at 575 , 81 S.Ct. at 332 .
The purpose of protecting the neutral employer is fully served by any binding settlement between the disputing employee groups.
The neutral employer is one who cares not how the dispute is decided but wants merely that it be decided.
Further Examination of Legislative History We have undertaken a fresh examination of the relevant legislative history.
That history forcefully supports the conclusion that Congress intended in 10(k) to encourage disputing unions to establish inter-union machinery for settling jurisdiction disputes and to afford them an opportunity to exhaust this machinery.
The original House bill contained nothing comparable to 10(k) .
Senator Morse, who proposed the forerunner provision which emerged, with relatively minor modification, as 10(k) , prepared a "definitional" memorandum, which stated that while there are various kinds of "jurisdictional disputes" they have as their common ingredient a controversy between two or more labor unions."
I Legis.Hist.
951.
15 Senator Morse proposed a subsection (k) which, as appears from its text in the footnote, 16 is virtually the same as what is now 10(k) .
It provided for Board determination of "the dispute out of which such unfair labor practice shall have arisen" unless "the parties to such dispute have adjusted or agreed upon methods for the voluntary adjustment of such dispute."
(Senator Morse also proposed enlargement of definition of unfair labor practices and authority in the Board to seek Federal injunctions pending determination of the disputes.)
In supporting his proposal he referred to his own experience during World War II as a member of the War Labor Board whose undertaking of jurisdiction to determine jurisdictional dispute work stoppages resulted in a policy whereby "we would give the union leaders involved in a jurisdictional dispute 24 hours to proceed to settle the dispute without a work stoppage, and upon their failure to do so we would appoint an arbitrator whose decision would be final and binding."
And he predicted that the same incentive to union settlement would follow from the post-war adoption of his [**156] proposal to amend the National Labor Relations Act.
He stated: 17 While in some respects the Congress departed from Senator Morse's proposals, 18 Congress retained the thought obtained from his subsection (k), of a machinery for Board determination, an abstention provision where the parties agree on a procedure for settlement, and of an incentive to determination by the parties to the dispute.
And there can be no doubt that the parties to the jurisdictional dispute were conceived of as the rival unions, or employee groups.
This appears not only from the presentation of Senator Morse, but from the use of the same core concept of the underlying dispute as the jurisdictional dispute between the unions, in the House Conference Report, a document of highest standing in ascertaining legislative intent.
In its recommendation for adoption of 10(k) , the House Conference Report stated: section 10(k) disputes between unions section 8(b) (4) 19 There was general agreement on the view that 10(k) had merit as stimulating settlement machinery within the ranks of labor , agreement even from legislators opposed to other elements of the new law. 20 Consideration of the Board's Contrary Construction of 10(k) The meaning of 10(k) as we understand it is contrary to the construction announced by the Board.
That agency's construction is entitled to deference.
However, the text, legislative history and purpose, and precedent, combine to negative the aura of doubt which creates the occasion for giving weight to the Board's construction.
See CBS , supra , 364 U.S. at 585 , 81 S.Ct. 330 , 5 L.Ed.2d 302 ; Truck Drivers and Helpers Local Union 728 of Intern.
Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America, AFL-CIO v. NLRB , 101 U.S.App.D.C.
420 , 249 F.2d 512 (1957), cert. denied, 355 U.S. 958 , 78 S.Ct. 543 , 2 L.Ed.2d 533 (1958).
If there was room for doubt prior to CBS , that decision should have alerted the Board to modify its interpretation. 21 [**157] Nor is the Board's construction entitled to greater deference because of the mere fact that the 1959 amendments to the Taft Hartley Act did not modify 10(k) .
Reenactment of a section of law does not of itself constitute conclusive legislative approval of either decisions or administrative regulations construing the provision, in the absence of a showing that the attention of Congress was specifically directed to the matter at hand.
That is the teaching of Helvering v. Hallock , 309 U.S. 106 , 60 S.Ct. 444 , 84 L.Ed. 604 (1940), and Girouard v. United States , 328 U.S. 61 , 66 S.Ct. 826 , 90 L.Ed. 1084 (1946), decisions whose vitality is underscored by the very recent opinion in Boys Markets, Inc. v. Retail Clerk's Union , 398 U.S. 235 , 90 S.Ct. 1583 , 26 L.Ed.2d 199 (1970).
In Boys Market the Supreme Court reiterated its stricture against assigning conclusive weight to congressional silence as acceptance of a ruling "in the absence of persuasive circumstances evidencing a clear design" that congressional inaction denoted acquiescence.
Although the Taft-Hartley Act was amended in 1959, there is no indication that Congress gave consideration to the issue now before us, or even to the subject of jurisdictional strikes.
Its inaction concerning a provision whose meaning we do not find really doubtful is not accompanied by any circumstances or indications from which we can discern a "clear design" to accept the Board's rulings.
Additional Court Precedent We are in accord with the reasoning in Penello for and on behalf of N.L.R.B.
v. Local Union No. 59, Sheet Metal Wkrs.
Int.
Assn.
, 195 F.Supp.
458 (D.Del.1961), which rejected the view that the employer's resistance "could be the sole factor making inoperative" the "voluntary adjustment" abstention provision of 10(k) .
Judge Wright declared (at p. 466): 10(k) 8(b) (4) 10(k) Rejection of Policy Argument of Board Counsel Overstressing Need To Obtain Employer Acquiescence To this court counsel for the Board presented an argument on policy grounds that the Board's construction of 10(k) is sound because it is best suited to preservation of industrial peace.
We were not specifically cited to Board opinions wherein this policy was set forth by the Board as contrasted with argument of counsel.
See Braniff Airways, Inc. v. CAB , 126 U.S.App.D.C.
399 , 379 F.2d 453 (1967).
But let us consider the contention on its merits.
Board counsel argue (Brief at 17): Section 10(k) A similar starting point, that the employer is not bound by the 10(k) determination [**158] was the premise of the argument made by the Board in CBS--and without success.
22 This approach harbors the difficulty of a built-in tendency (not necessarily an absolute rule) to give controlling weight to the determination of the employer--because he is not required to comply with the determination of the Board.
A similar appraisal was part of the Court's reasoning in CBS for rejecting the Board construction there involved ( 364 U.S. at 579 , 81 S.Ct. at 334 ): 10(k) Scope Given Voluntary Arbitration Procedures Our conclusion that agreement for binding arbitration between the disputing unions is effective to stay a determination by the Board under 10(k) is also supported by the general principle that full scope should be given to voluntary arbitration procedures.
Carey v. Westinghouse Corp. , 375 U.S. 261 , 84 S.Ct. 401 , 11 L.Ed.2d 320 (1964).
Not least of the advantages is the relative speed of voluntary arbitration, as compared with Board adjudicatory procedures--a matter of manifest significance in the handling of jurisdictional strikes.
23 Importance of Permanent Resolution of Dispute Furthermore, and significantly, the availability of a binding agreement between the disputing unions creates means of enforcing a permanent resolution of the jurisdictional dispute not otherwise available to the Board.
The Act does not authorize the Board to compel an employer to change his assignment, or a union to renounce an assignment that the employer is willing to give.
But an award arising out of voluntary binding arbitration can be enforced by peaceful means.
The impetus for unions to live up to inter-union agreements rests on reinforcing considerations of honor, reciprocity, mutuality--and enforceability.
The winning union may bring an action, either in federal court under 301 of the Taft-Hartley Act or in state court, to secure injunctive relief against a union that has failed to abide by its agreement to honor the Joint Board decision and renounce the work. 24 While delay may be involved before the union can secure an adjustment in fact, e. g., by prevailing in its suit for enforcement of the arbitration agreement, the public interest is safeguarded in the interim by the injunction obtained under 10(l) .
That injunction remains in effect pending the ultimate adjustment, and may, indeed, give the winning union incentive to pursue with diligence legal enforcement of an award in its favor.
Problems may [**159] arise in fact under this procedure if the employer tempts the losing union with continued offers of the work in dispute, but to give the losing union a legal right to another bite at the apple in the 10(k) proceeding is only to permit the jurisdictional battle to begin anew as a matter of right and principle, whereas a central objective of 10(k) is to strengthen enforcement of agreements reached by the unions.
The construction of 10(k) approved today means that proceedings on 8(b) (4) (D) unfair labor practices charges may be terminated because of union agreements reached after the proceedings are begun.
But that is precisely the purpose of 10(k) as expressed in CBS , where the Court said ( 364 U.S. at 576-577 , 81 S.Ct. at 332 ): Section 10(k) It also means that proceedings may be dismissed although an employer is dissatisfied with, and would prefer to contest and litigate, the agreement reached by the unions.
The special provisions were passed, however, to protect the employer who was "neutral" in the dispute.
Special Provisions of 10(k) Inapplicable to Employers Not Truly Neutral in Jurisdictional Dispute An employer properly has standing under these provisions when he is plagued by employee groups that do not agree, and not when he is dissatisfied with the way they do agree.
This principle has indeed been recognized by the Board's so-called Safeway doctrine in cases where an unfair labor practice violation has been followed by actual agreement between unions, with renunciation of the work. 25 In those cases the Board agrees that there is no longer a jurisdictional dispute.
The essential point is that the employer's economic interests do not require the Board to pursue the matter under 10(k) even though (a) there was an unfair labor practice under 8(b) (4) (D) in the first instance and (b) the employer is not really neutral as between the unions but makes it clear that he is dissatisfied with the adjustment on which they have agreed.
The same principle is fairly operative when the unions have agreed on a method for obtaining an adjustment, a binding arbitration that the unions will generally observe and have power to enforce.
The Taft-Hartley Act, though broad and unqualified in its terms, must be taken in light of its dominant purpose to protect "neutral" employers.
This [**160] aspect of the "common law" of labor relations has been infused into the meaning of the Act in cases involving the provisions of the law broadly prohibiting secondary boycotts.
26 A similar principle is also applicable to ensure the kind of application of the jurisdictional dispute provisions that was intended by Congress.
We need not consider whether in some other case the Board could continue with a 10(k) proceeding because the rival employee groups had not reached an actual agreement and their agreement on a procedure for adjustment was subject to an infirmity that undercut its fairness and reliability as a method of achieving the industrial peace that is the ultimate objective of Congress.
27 It may also be that the Board has discretion to conclude that a paper agreement between disputing unions does not in fact reflect an operative mechanism likely to resolve the dispute.
No such contention has been advanced by the Board either as to the general operation of the Joint Board plan or as to its handling of this particular inter-union dispute.
Under these circumstances we hold that the presently operative Joint Board plan which creates in the unions not entitled to disputed work a legally enforceable obligation to renounce the work can be and was intended by Congress to be preserved as a private-ordering mechanism for the resolution of jurisdictional disputes.
We conclude that 10(k) was intended to give full play to this private-ordering mechanism, and requires the Board to abstain from adjudication while it is being pursued.
28 Our understanding of the thrust of Federal labor policy as developed by Congress proceeds along lines congruous to those developed by the Supreme Court in Boys Markets, Inc. v. Retail Clerks , supra .
There the Court reversed a ruling of but nine years standing in order to maintain the efficacy of the arbitration remedy--viewed in the large as furthered by an injunction preserving the status quo pending the arbitral process.
The Court stressed the importance of mutuality--that an employer could not be [**161] held to his contract to pursue the arbitration remedy if he could not obtain effective relief (including pendente lite injunction) to enforce the union's similar obligation.
Our situation is marked by technical differences but similarity in principles.
As we have noted, Board abstention under 10(k) in favor of an arbitration agreement is accompanied by injunctive relief to maintain the status quo pending the conducting of the arbitration and the enforcement of the award.
And the pattern we find in the Act avoids a lack of mutuality since the employer cannot interfere with arbitration on the ground that he desires to permit the Board to conduct a proceeding and issue an order that he is not obligated to observe.
Accordingly the petition to review is granted; the petition for enforcement is denied; and the Board's order of June 27, 1968, 172 NLRB No. 77 is set aside.
So ordered
