 TRASK , Circuit Judge: The taxpayer, Idaho Power Company, appeals from a Tax Court decision denying taxpayer's depreciation deduction on equipment used in the construction of capital improvements.
Under the Tax Court decision the taxpayer was ordered to pay deficiencies in income taxes for the taxable years 1962 and 1963 in the amounts of $73,023.47 and $50,342.21, respectively.
The Tax Court ruled against the taxpayer on the single issue--whether the taxpayer is entitled to deduct depreciation on depreciable equipment to the extent such equipment is used in the construction of its own capital assets.
The Tax Court treated the depreciation as a cost of the construction of the new facilities and ruled such costs must be capitalized as part of the basis of the property constructed under section 263 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
1 We agree with the taxpayer's position that the current depreciation should be treated as a current deduction under section 167 of the Code.
2 The decision of the Tax Court is therefore reversed.
The taxpayer is a public utility engaged in the production, transmission and sale of electricity.
Since at least 1929, the taxpayer has regularly constructed additional transmission and distribution facilities using its own employees and equipment for a major part of the work.
In 1962 it constructed $7,139,940.72 worth of facilities and in 1963, $5,642,342.79 worth.
In some years it has used as many as 300 employees in construction and at the time of trial 140 were engaged in such work in question.
During the years, the taxpayer has owned cars, trucks, trailers and radio equipment which have been used in part to operate and maintain existing facilities and in part to construct new capital assets.
On its books the taxpayer capitalized the depreciation to the extent the equipment was used in the construction of capital assets in accordance with accounting procedures prescribed by the Federal Power Commission and adopted by the Idaho Public Utilities Commission.
3 On its income tax returns for 1962 and 1963, however, the taxpayer deducted all depreciation on its transportation equipment, including depreciation on the equipment to the extent it was used in construction.
Such equipment was depreciated over a composite life of ten years.
All other costs allocable to the constructed facilities, except pension contributions, social security taxes and motor vehicle taxes, which were also deducted currently, were capitalized by the taxpayer.
This included costs of operating and maintaining such equipment.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue disallowed and capitalized the deduction for depreciation on taxpayer's equipment to the extent that such equipment was used in the construction of capital assets and allowed instead a deduction for depreciation of the amounts so capitalized over the useful life of the property so constructed.
The construction, consisting principally of transmission and distribution facilities, had useful lives of 30 years or longer.
The result of this adjustment was the net disallowance by the Commissioner of depreciation claimed by the taxpayer during the years 1962 and 1963 in the respective amounts of $140,429.75 and $96,811.95.
I. THE DEPRECIATION DEDUCTION A re-examination of the purpose of the depreciation deduction, its place in the statutory scheme and its history will assist us in solving the problem.
It is the basic theory of depreciation that capital assets which are used in the business should not be exhausted without a provision for their replacement.
To that end depreciation over the life of the asset provides the means by which the taxpayer can recover its cost.
One way of expressing this very practical approach was that of the Supreme Court in Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co. , 212 U.S. 1, 13-14 , 29 S.Ct. 148, 152 , 53 L.Ed. 371 (1909): Although that case did not involve an income tax problem, it states the underlying theory of the deduction.
The purpose of the depreciation allowance under the Code is "to permit the taxpayer to recover his capital investment in wasting assets free of income tax."
4 Mertens, Law of Income Taxation 23.04 .
The Supreme Court has said that the purpose of the depreciation deduction is to create a fund to restore the property, to the extent of the investment of the taxpayer, at the end of its useful life: Detroit Edison Co. v. Commissioner 319 U.S. 98, 101 63 S.Ct. 902, 904 87 L.Ed. 1286 In Massey Motors, Inc. v. United States , 364 U.S. 92, 96 , 80 S.Ct. 1411, 1414 , 4 L.Ed.2d 1592 (1960), the Supreme Court allowed a depreciation deduction on automobiles used by dealers or their employees, explaining: 23(l) 4 The issue here does not affect the amount of the depreciation to which the taxpayer is entitled.
Whether it is spread over a ten-year life or a thirty-year life, the amount remains the same.
It does affect the timing of the recovery of the depreciation and thus might have a vital effect on the ability of a taxpayer to maintain and replenish its equipment inventory without depleting its working capital or burdening its borrowing capacity.
The legislative history of the depreciation deduction clearly supports our decision in favor of the taxpayer.
"Prior to the enactment of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, the statutory provisions for depreciation were singularly brief."
4 Mertens, supra at 23.01 .
Section 23(l) of the 1939 Act contained only a bare statement similar to the general rule in section 167(a) of the 1954 Act, 5 and a two sentence paragraph stating the method of computation as between a life tenant and a remainderman.
When Congress adopted the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, however, it gave particular attention to liberalized depreciation allowances.
It provided for the use of new methods and rates, in addition to the standard straight line method.
These included a declining balance method, a sum of the years-digits method and a fourth method which was any one consistently applied so long as the total at the end of each year did not exceed the allowances which would have resulted from the use of the declining balance method.
6 Further, the report of the Ways and Means Committee on H.R.
8300, which became the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, stated at the beginning of its discussion of this subject: The report emphasized the importance of the liberalized policies of the bill.
It pointed out its reliance upon the use of an improved declining balance method of computing depreciation which "concentrates deductions in the early years of service and results in a timing of allowances more in accord with the actual pattern of loss of economic usefulness."
Id. at 4048 .
The report continued: Id .
Obviously the decision of the court below does not permit the purpose of either the statute, the regulations, the legislative history or the cases interpreting them from being achieved.
The assets, for which a depreciation deduction is sought here, have a useful life of ten years.
No dispute appears to exist as to this point.
If the plain language of the statute is to be followed, the taxpayer should by depreciation allowances recover the cost of those assets within that ten-year period.
Yet such costs will not be fully recovered for 30 years if the Commissioner's determination requiring transfer of the depreciation to the new asset is applied.
II.
TAXPAYER'S ARGUMENT The taxpayer argues that deductions specifically allowed and set out under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 should not be capitalized even though incurred by the taxpayer in constructing facilities for its own use.
Such deductions include interest ( section 163 ), taxes ( section 164 ) and depreciation ( section 167 ).
These particular deductions, expressly enumerated in the Code, differ from the general deduction for ordinary and necessary business expenses, which is not available whenever the amount expended is determined to be a capital expenditure rather than a current business expense.
This interpretation of the Code's overall scheme is in harmony with the Tax Court's decision in All-Steel Equipment Inc. , 54 T.C. 1749 (1970), rev'd on other grounds, 467 F.2d 1184 (7th Cir. 1972).
The issue there was whether certain expenditures for taxes, losses and research and experiment where to be included in the cost of inventory (comparable to the capitalization of expenditures for capital assets).
Because these three items are expressly listed in the Code as proper deductions under sections 164 , 165 and 174, they are not to be deferred even though they relate to inventory or capital items.
The Tax Court explained: Montreal Mining Co. 2 T.C. 688 Spring Valley Water Co. 5 B.T.A.
660 Pacific Coast Redwood Co. 5 B.T.A.
423 Joe W. Stout 31 T.C. 1199 Rogers v. Commissioner 281 F.2d 233 Cf. section 174 54 T.C. at 1759 Depreciation, under section 167 , is likewise expressly listed as a proper deduction and no exception is made should it relate to a capital item.
7 The precise issue of this case was raised in an early railroad case. Great Northern Ry. Co. , 30 B.T.A.
691 (1934).
The railroad there, like the taxpayer here, used its equipment for the construction of additions to the taxpayer's property.
The court reversed the Commissioner's determination and held that the full amount of depreciation of the equipment, including the period that it was used for construction, should be allowed.
The court decided the equipment was used by its owner in a trade or business as the taxpayer maintained and that "it is a part of the regular business of a railroad to construct additional capital facilities for the transaction of its business as a common carrier."
30 B.T.A.
at 708 .
The allowance of the depreciation deduction rather than capitalization of such costs was deemed appropriate because the statutory conditions for the deduction were satisfied.
8 In further support of its position, taxpayer points out that section 263 providing for capital expenditures states: paid out The use of the term "paid out," argues the taxpayer, was not without significance.
There is nothing in the Internal Revenue Code which says that for purposes of section 263 depreciation is an amount "paid out" or an "expenditure."
On the contrary in construing other sections, the decisions have held that depreciation is not an amount "paid out."
In section 170(a)(1) , for example, a deduction is allowed for ".
.
.
any charitable contribution .
.
.
payment of which is made within the taxable year."
It has been held that an allowance for depreciation is not a payment within the meaning of this section.
Thus in Orr v. United States , 343 F.2d 553 (5th Cir. 1965), a taxpayer used his automobile and airplane in work for the Methodist Church.
The court held that a charitable deduction was not permissible to the extent of the depreciation arising from such activity because such an allowance was not a payment.
343 F.2d at 556 In Clinton H. Mitchell , 42 T.C. 953 (1964), the Tax Court said: Massey Motors, Inc. v. United States 364 U.S. 92 80 S.Ct. 1411 4 L.Ed.2d 1592 42 T.C. at 973 As another example, we note that section 213 of the Internal Revenue Code provides for deduction of medical and dental expenses equal to: In Maurice S. Gordon , 37 T.C. 986 (1962), it was held that depreciation on an automobile used to transport a taxpayer's son to a doctor could not qualify as a medical expense upon the ground that it was not "an amount paid."
Massey Motors Inc. v. United States 364 U.S. 92, 96 80 S.Ct. 1411 4 L.Ed.2d 1592 37 T.C. at 987 It appears to us there is both merit and judicial support for the taxpayer's argument here.
III.
THE TAX COURT DECISION The Tax Court disposed of the taxpayer's arguments by emphasizing that depreciation incurred in the acquisition of capital assets should be treated as part of the cost thereof.
In Revenue Ruling 59-380, 1959-2 Cum.Bull.
87, the Internal Revenue Service specifically dealt with the issue in this case: In a recent case factually similar to this case, the Court of Claims followed Revenue Ruling 59-380.
Southern Natural Gas Co. v. United States , 412 F.2d 1222, 1264-1269 , 188 Ct.Cl.
302 (1969).
9 The taxpayer contends the court's decision was erroneously based on incorrect assumptions.
We agree.
First, the Court of Claims could see no reason "for carving out a special exception for depreciation" on the automotive equipment of the company to the extent it was used to construct additional pipelines for its own capital improvements.
Neither the Southern Natural Gas Company nor the Idaho Power Company, however, was seeking a special exception.
Both based their claims on the express language of the Internal Revenue Code authorizing a depreciation deduction.
Second, the Court of Claims was concerned that a double recovery of cost would result if a depreciation deduction were currently allowed on the equipment--first, when the depreciation was deducted and second when the constructed asset was depreciated or sold.
This assumption is patently incorrect.
There is no possibility of double recovery because the cost basis of the capital asset would not include the depreciation theretofore deducted.
Third, the court harbored an unfounded fear that the interpretation urged by the appellant if pushed to its logical conclusion would leave the taxpayer without a basis for self-constructed assets.
A taxpayer's actual expenditures for labor and materials, however, must be capitalized as part of the basis of the capital improvements under the requirements of section 263 which provides for capitalization of amounts "paid out" for capital assets.
Such expenses have to be capitalized even though they are expended for self-constructed assets.
Also, as we have noted above, the costs of operating and maintaining the equipment must be capitalized.
For these reasons we are not persuaded by Southern Natural Gas and we conclude that Revenue Ruling 59-380 is an improper and incorrect interpretation of the law. 10 Furthermore, the strong factual record in this case supports the taxpayer's contention that equipment used to construct its own capital improvements is used in the trade or business of the taxpayer as section 167 requires.
The continuity and regularity of taxpayer's construction activities, the number of employees engaged in construction and the amounts expended on construction all point to the conclusion that construction of facilities is a major aspect of the taxpayer's trade or business.
These activities are auxiliary operations incident to the taxpayer's principal trade or business of producing, transmitting, distributing and selling electrical energy within the meaning of section 167 .
11 We, therefore, are constrained to distinguish this case from Southern Natural Gas where the court determined the taxpayer's equipment was not used in the taxpayer's trade or business to the extent it was used to construct capital assets.
12 Other cases cited by the Tax Court concerning oil and gas leases are factually distinguishable from the self-constructed capital asset cases.
In L. W. Brooks, Jr.
, 50 T.C. 927 (1968), and Producers Chemical Co. , 50 T.C. 940 (1968), the issues involved the allocation of operating costs between two taxpayers--the operator's working interest in a leasehold and his production payment toward acquisition of the leasehold.
These cases are analogous to allocation of costs between a life tenant and a remainderman.
They are inapposite here where there is only one taxpayer involved.
Likewise, Ben Perlmutter , 44 T.C. 382 (1964), aff'd, 373 F.2d 45 (10th Cir. 1967), cited by the Tax Court, was decided on a question of fact.
No legal issue was raised as to the validity of a depreciation deduction for vehicles used in construction.
The extent of their use, if any, was questionable and the issue thus was inconsequential.
We do not deem it to be in point on the issue before us.
The judgment is reversed.
