 BAZELON , Chief Judge: Appellant, a licensed physician, was registered under 822 of the Controlled Substances Act 1 to prescribe methadone.
He was convicted of violating 841 of the Act, which forbids prescriptions without authorization.
We find 841 inapplicable to appellant and reverse his conviction.
Our conclusion is reached by force of the established principle that "when [a] choice has to be made between two readings of what conduct Congress had made a crime, it is appropriate, before we choose the harsher alternative, to require that Congress should have spoken in language that is clear and definite."
2 This rule, of course, cannot serve to "override .
.
.
evident statutory purpose."
3 In the search for an "evident statutory purpose," our analysis necessarily covers a complex maze of statutory language, regulatory provisions, and previous legislation.
I Methadone is an addictive drug which can be used in the treatment of narcotics addiction.
4 A heroin addict who switches to methadone may experience neither a craving for heroin nor a euphoric "high."
Moreover, methadone can be taken orally once a day, while heroin must often be injected several times a day.
There are two general approaches to the use of methadone in treating addicts--maintenance and detoxification.
Under a system of maintenance, a large dose of methadone is given once a day for an indefinite period in order to keep the patient from taking heroin.
In detoxification, the less controversial approach, a large dose of methadone is given for the first few days in order to keep the patient free of withdrawal symptoms.
The dose is then gradually reduced, ultimately to achieve abstinence from all drugs.
The evidence at appellant's trial established that from August, 1971 to February, 1972 appellant prescribed methadone to numerous patients.
Under the Controlled Substance Act only those doctors who have obtained registration from the Attorney General can prescribe a "controlled substance" such as methadone.
5 Appellant had obtained such registration for the period in question and it was never revoked during that period.
Appellant contended at trial that he prescribed methadone in good faith for detoxification.
The government argued that appellant was no more than a "pusher": As appellant concedes in his brief to this court, 6 the evidence at trial established that he engaged in certain highly [**321] irregular practices during the period in question: In a 639-count indictment filed June 27, 1972, 7 appellant was charged with violating 841(a) of the Controlled Substances Act: When appellant was arraigned, the trial judge told the prosecutor that the theory of the government's case would have to be spelled out in greater detail since "the indictment doesn't tell the defendant anything."
Accordingly, at a pre-trial hearing government counsel offered an oral bill of particulars.
Counsel noted that pursuant to a provision in the Controlled Substances Act the Attorney General had promulgated regulations governing those registered to prescribe controlled substances.
The government relied on appellant's alleged violation of one of those regulations: Appellant's trial commenced on October 17, 1972.
After the prosecution rested, the defense moved for a judgment of acquittal, noting that the government had failed to establish that appellant was not authorized to write prescriptions for methadone.
The motion was denied.
After the defense rested, the court, in keeping with the government's [**322] theory of the case, instructed the jury that it had to find: The jury returned a verdict of guilty on 22 counts.
Appellant was sentenced to prison terms of five to fifteen years on each of fourteen counts, all to run concurrently, and ten to thirty years on each of the remaining eight counts, to run concurrently to each other but consecutively to the first set of sentences.
Fines totalling $150,000 were also imposed.
8 II Appellant contends that his indictment must be dismissed because 841 of the Controlled Substances Act does not apply to doctors registered to dispense methadone.
He argues that if he acted unlawfully he was subject to trial only under those sections of the statute which specifically govern the activities of registered doctors--sections with less severe penalties than those in 841 .
This contention is the only one we address.
We do not decide under what circumstances, if any, an individual such as appellant could lawfully administer a methadone maintenance program.
Nor do we decide whether appellant was in fact maintaining addicts, detoxifying them, or simply pushing drugs.
We may assume that appellant, a licensed physician registered to prescribe methadone, acted wrongfully.
We are only concerned with the consequences of such action.
There is support in the language and history of 822 of the Act for appellant's contention that 841 does not apply to him. 822(b) specifically provides that persons registered by the Attorney General to dispense controlled substances are "authorized [to do so] to the extent authorized by their registration and in conformity with the other provisions of this subchapter."
The language echoes the "except as authorized" language of 841 , suggesting immunity for registrants from the penal sanctions provided for in that section.
Of course, that a registrant is "authorized .
.
.
to the extent authorized" lends some credence to a theory that Congress did not intend authorization for registrants to extend beyond compliance with the other provisions of the Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
The legislative history of 822 , however, weighs against such a theory.
The Act, as it was originally passed by the Senate, 9 did not contain a section comparable to 822(b) .
The provision was inserted by the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, which flatly stated in its report that the purpose of the addition was "to make it clear that persons registered under this title are authorized to deal in or handle controlled substances."
10 The Committee's explanation contains no suggestion that it intended to authorize only registrants who complied in every way with responsibilities established under other sections of the Act.
11 Appellant's reading of 841 [**323] gathers further support from its place in the overall scheme of the Act.
The Act insures the close regulation of registrants.
Section 822(f) gives the Attorney General authority to inspect the offices of registrants.
Standards and procedures are set forth in 824 for revoking or suspending an individual's registration; revocation and suspension, as tools for the administrative control of the flow of drugs, have recently been strengthened by the passage of the Narcotic Addict Treatment Act.
12 Under 828 and 829, requirements are detailed for the proper order forms and prescriptions in the distribution or prescription of drugs.
This administrative machinery is backed up by the penalties provided for in 842 and 843.
842 outlaws issuing prescriptions in violation of 829 , mislabelling drugs and similar misconduct.
Violators of 842 are subject to a civil penalty of $25,000 and, if a violation is knowing, a criminal penalty of a year imprisonment and a fine of $25,000.
843 defines more serious offenses for registrants, such as distributing a controlled substance when there is no proper order form and using a fictitious registration number.
Violations are punishable by four years' imprisonment and a $30,000 fine.
In contrast to 842 and 843, 841 does not mention "registrants" as the focus of any of its provisions.
It provides for sentences of up to 15 years and fines of up to $25,000.
This broad outline strongly suggests that Congress intended to deal with registrants primarily through a system of administrative controls, relying on modest penalty provisions to enforce those controls, and reserving the severe penalties provided for in 841 for those seeking to avoid regulation entirely by not registering.
As already noted, the regulations which served the Government as a bill of particulars in appellant's trial appear in 306.04 of the regulations implementing the statute.
Part 306 is specifically limited to: 21 U.S.C. 829 13 Punishment for violation of 829 is specifically provided for in 842 .
Against the statutory background which we have sketched, it cannot have been evident to appellant that he would also be punishable under 841(a) , which makes no reference to 829 or the obligations which it imposes on registrants.
14 [**324] III The government seeks to justify its prosecution of appellant by reference to judicial construction of the Harrison Narcotic Act of 1914, 15 the predecessor of the Controlled Substances Act.
In order to evaluate this contention we must consider the structure of the Harrison Act.
Section 1 required that persons selling or prescribing certain narcotics register with the "collector of internal revenue of [their] district" and pay an annual tax.
Section 2 made it unlawful to sell or prescribe narcotics except to persons with order forms issued by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
Section 2 exempted the prescribing "of any of the aforesaid drugs to a patient by a physican .
.
.
[regularly] registered under this Act in the course of his professional practice only .
.
."
All violations of the Act were punished under Section 9 by imprisonment of up to five years and fines of up to $2,000.
The government notes that under court decisions construing the Harrison Act a physician could lose his exemption from Section 2 by distributing drugs in an unprofessional manner.
16 They refer to decisions such as Jin Fuey Moy v. United States, in which the Supreme Court held in 1920 that: 17 The government maintains that the foregoing principles are "analogously dispositive" 18 and dictate that under the Controlled Substances Act appellant was stripped of his exemption from 841 by his unprofessional conduct.
The Controlled Substances Act, however, is fundamentally different from the Harrison Narcotic Act.
Indeed, as its legislative history indicates, the Controlled Substances Act replaces the Harrison Act's single penalty provision with a series of penalty provisions specifically designed to treat registered and unregistered individuals differently.
The penalty provisions now embodied in 841, 842, and 843 of the Controlled Substances Act were first before Congress when the Senate considered the Controlled Dangerous Substances Act of 1969.
501 -503 of the Senate bill 19 contained the identical offenses as 841-843: 501 outlawed drug dealing by those not "authorized" under the Act; 502 prohibited, inter alia , actions by registrants which violated the "prescriptions" section; 20 and 503 prohibited, inter alia , distribution by registrants in the absence of proper order forms.
The relative severity of the penalties was also identical to the present Act: the most severe penalty was for violation [**325] of 501 , the least severe for violation of 502 .
The Judiciary Committee's Report on the Senate bill states that while 501 applies to "traffickers," 21 502 contains "penalties .
.
.
for those involved in the legitimate drug trade," 22 and 503 contains "further penalties .
.
.
for registrants for illegal distribution of [controlled] drugs .
.
."
23 The Section-By-Section Analysis in the Report states that 502 makes it unlawful to prescribe a controlled substance "contrary to the terms of registration requirements," 24 and 503 makes it unlawful to distribute controlled substances "contrary to registration requirements and contrary to order forms established by the Attorney General."
25 Thus it was clear at the time of the Senate Report that 502-503 ( 842-843) were designed to regulate registrants--those within the legitimate drug business--while 501 ( 841 ) was for those outside of legitimate channels.
The debtate on the floor of the Senate confirms this view.
Senator Dodd, the manager of the bill and chairman of the relevant subcommittee, noted that 502-503 provided penalties "for those involved in the legitimate drug trade."
26 Senator Hruska, a leading proponent of the bill and a member of Senator Dodd's subcommittee, emphasized that the Harrison Act was outdated.
27 He explained that in the Senate bill "we are not merely redecorating the existing legal structure.
Rather we have laid a new foundation .
.
."
28 Senator Hruska further noted that in the Senate bill "the penalties are tailored to fit the crime and the person who committed that crime."
29 He described 501 as applying to "traffickers," 30 and 502 and 503 as defining "offenses committed by registrants."
31 On January 28, 1970, the Controlled Dangerous Substances Act passed the Senate.
The House then held hearings in the field.
On September 10, 1970, the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce reported out the bill which became the present Act.
32 The three penalty provisions passed by the [**326] Senate were retained in the House bill.
33 The House Committee's Report emphasized the unique structure of the proposed legislation: 34 Thus the House Committee was aware, as the Senate was, of a distinction between 841 , which covers unauthorized individuals, and 842 and 843, which cover those in the "legitimate distribution chain."
The House Report notes that "more or less technical violations" are set forth in 842 35 --there is no comparable explanatory phrase concerning 841 or 843 .
We find no merit in the government's view that this phrase mandates that appellant be tried under 841 since his violations were not "technical."
At most, the phrase might indicate that 843 , which has more severe penalties than 842 , be used for certain serious offenses committed by those within the legitimate distribution chain.
In any event, the phrase "more or less technical violations" is hardly self-explanatory--the penalty for a knowing violation of 842 includes a year imprisonment, implying that Congress was concerned with serious misbehavior.
36 The House Report provides further support for the view that the Controlled Substance Act fundamentally revises the penalty structure of the Harrison Act.
The Report, in its discussion of the need for medical treatment for narcotics addicts, 37 cites with approval the reports of two Presidential Commissions--the Prettyman Commission of 1963 38 and the Katzenbach Commission of 1967.
39 Both Commissions noted the difficulties physicians faced under the Harrison Act, where a controversial drug prescription for a patient could result in a doctor being punished as a pusher.
40 The House Report quoted at length from the Prettyman Commission's discussion of this problem, including its references to the very line of cases relied on by the government in this appeal: [**327] Linder v. United States 268 U.S. 5 45 S.Ct. 446 69 L.Ed. 819 41 We are aware, as the dissent notes, 42 that this passage appears in the House Report's consideration of a section of the Act which provides for the determination of "appropriate methods of treatment for addicts" in order to "clarify for the medical profession in the United States the extent to which they may safely go in treating narcotic addicts as patients."
43 Yet the publication of acceptable methods, as one response to the impact of the Linder holding, does not exclude the implementation of other responses as well, including the exemption of registered practitioners from some penalty provisions.
In any event, the general concern of Congress expressed here, taken together with the other aspects of the Act's legislative history which we have reviewed, forcibly undermines the Government's position that precedents under the Harrison Act should be considered "analogously dispositive."
44 Reversed.
