 PER CURIAM: This case is about Amy.
She is eight years old.
She is deaf and has been since birth.
She needs a sign language interpreter in her classroom to enable her to have the same educational opportunity as her classmates.
The district court, Vincent L. Broderick, District Judge , held that she is entitled by law to have such an interpreter.
We agree and accordingly we affirm the judgment of the district court.
Amy Rowley presently is enrolled at the Furnace Woods School in the Hendrick Hudson Central School District, Peekskill, New York.
In accordance with the requirements of federal law, The Education for All Handicapped Children Act of 1975, 20 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.
(1978) (the Act), the School District prepared an individualized education program for Amy.
1 Her parents objected to the program because no provision was made for a sign language interpreter.
Accordingly, they commenced proceedings under New York law for the administrative review provided by the Act.
2 When the School District's decision not to provide an interpreter was upheld by the Commissioner of Education of the State of New York, the Rowleys, individually and on behalf of Amy, commenced the instant action in the Southern District of New York under Section 1415(e)(2) .
3 The School District was named as defendant and the Commissioner subsequently was added as a necessary party defendant.
After a four day evidentiary hearing and after reviewing the records of the administrative proceedings, the district court made detailed findings of fact and concluded that Amy had been denied a "free appropriate public education" provided by the Act.
4 The court ordered the School District and the Commissioner to provide an interpreter during Amy's academic classes.
483 F.Supp.
528 .
The court also denied the Commissioner's motion to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction.
483 F.Supp.
536 .
From the judgment entered on the decisions of the district court, the School District and the Commissioner have appealed.
Our careful review of the record satisfies us that the district court's findings of fact are not clearly erroneous, but are adequately supported by the evidence.
We also agree with the district court's conclusions of law.
Accordingly, we affirm substantially for the reasons set forth in Judge Broderick's well-reasoned opinions of January 15, 1980, adding only the following brief observations of our own--chiefly to focus upon certain critical evidence.
Amy is the child of deaf parents.
Since her birth, her parents have communicated with her by a method which includes the use of sign language, visual cues, the mouthing of words, and amplification.
Amy is a bright child.
Despite her handicap, she performs above the median standard of her class.
The district court attributed this to her intense desire to learn and the extraordinary degree of additional academic help and support she receives from her parents.
Like many deaf people, Amy has some residual hearing.
In her classroom she uses an FM wireless hearing aid.
She also reads lips.
This is a limited skill, however, under the best of conditions.
Many sounds are not visible on the lips and communication is impossible when the teacher and students are not facing Amy.
The district court found, based on the evidence before it, including Amy's auditory speech discrimination tests, academic records, and observations of her in the classroom, that Amy misses a substantial part of what goes on in her classroom.
The court found that, while only 59% of what transpires is now accessible to Amy under her present individualized education program, with a sign language interpreter 100% would be accessible to her.
The court therefore concluded that the services of an interpreter were needed "to bring her educational opportunity up to the level of the educational opportunity being offered to her non-handicapped peers."
483 F.Supp.
at 535 .
The court held that Amy was entitled by law to have an interpreter during any school period when academic subjects are taught.
We agree.
Section 1415(e)(2) , supra note 3, provides that the district court's decision must be based "on the preponderance of the evidence".
5 The decision in the instant case clearly is supported by a preponderance of the evidence.
Moreover, the court weighed and evaluated the evidence with great care.
In affirming the judgment of the district court, we are satisfied that the court meticulously applied precisely the standard prescribed by Congress.
6 Finally, we wish to emphasize the narrow scope of our holding.
This is not a class action in which the needs of all deaf school children are being determined.
The evidence upon which our decision rests is concerned with a particular child, her atypical family, her upbringing and training since birth, and her classroom experience.
In short, our decision is limited to the unique facts of this case and is not intended as authority beyond this case. 7 Affirmed.
