 BAZELON , Senior Circuit Judge: Appellants, twelve individuals and an organization, 1 appeal the district court's dismissal of their complaint.
They alleged [**204] that federal agencies and officials unlawfully failed to terminate federal funding of state and local law enforcement agencies despite evidence that the funds were "used to discriminate on grounds of race and sex against plaintiffs and members of their class."
2 Appellants sought declaratory and injunctive relief against the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration (LEAA), 3 the Department of Justice and four officials in those agencies.
Appellants also sought compensatory and punitive damages against the four officials in their individual capacities.
4 Relying on the doctrines of mootness and official immunity, the district court dismissed all of appellant's claims.
For reasons that appear below, we reverse.
I. On the basis of 1976 amendments to the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (Omnibus Crime Control Act), 5 the district court dismissed appellants' claims for declaratory and injunctive relief as moot.
We disagree.
The Omnibus Crime Control Act was first amended in 1973 to require LEAA to terminate federal funding to recipients that engage in discriminatory practices.
6 In response to LEAA's failure to carry out this civil rights enforcement requirement, 7 Congress amended the Act in 1976 8 by adding more detailed mandatory procedures to be followed by LEAA in either securing compliance with the Act's antidiscrimination provision or terminating funds to noncomplying recipients.
The 1976 amendments have no bearing on appellants' claims that they were injured as a result of appellees' conduct, or on appellees' civil rights enforcement duties under either the Omnibus Crime Control Act or the other constitutional and statutory provisions upon which appellants base their claims for relief.
9 Thus, the 1976 amendments did not render any of appellants' claims moot and, on remand, appellants will be entitled to proceed on all causes of action stated in their complaint.
10 II.
The district court dismissed appellants' claims for monetary damages against the [**205] four agency officials in their individual capacities on the ground of absolute immunity.
Subsequent to the district court's decision, however, the Supreme Court limited the doctrine of official immunity.
We find this case now falls outside those limits, and thus reverse the district court's dismissal of the claims for monetary damages.
In Butz v. Economou , 11 the Supreme Court held that as a general rule, federal officials obtain only a qualified immunity in suits raising constitutional violations.
Instead of an absolute immunity, federal officials can be sued and can defend only on the basis of good faith and reasonable grounds for their conduct.
12 Appellees claim they are covered by a limited exception for administrative officials performing judicial and prosecutorial functions.
Recognized by the Supreme Court in Economou , this exception was carved out to preserve absolute immunity where "essential for the conduct of the public business."
438 U.S. 478, 507 , 98 S.Ct. 2894, 2911 , 57 L.Ed.2d 895 (1978).
As the Court reasoned, absolute immunity is necessary to protect discretionary prosecutorial decisions from the potentially distorting effect of civil liability.
13 Appellees claim that the complaint challenges "the conduct of LEAA's prosecutorial role in enforcing civil rights laws" 14 and thus should be met by a defense of absolute immunity.
We cannot agree.
The purpose of shielding discretionary prosecutorial decisions from fears of civil liability has no place where, as here, agency officials lack discretion.
Appellees have virtually no discretion under the relevant statute in deciding whether to terminate LEAA funding of discriminatory recipients.
The Omnibus Crime Control Act, as amended in 1973, provides that its fund termination powers.
15 The minimal matters left to LEAA's judgment--such as the assessment of "reasonable time after notification"--do not rise to the level of prosecutorial discretion that is protected by absolute immunity.
Accordingly, we find that appellees have only a defense of qualified immunity and reverse the district court's dismissal of the claims for monetary damages.
Appellants should be allowed to go to trial on their claims for damages and appellees given a chance to establish a defense of good faith or reasonable grounds for their conduct.
16 [**206] III.
For the foregoing reasons, we reverse the judgment of the district court and remand for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
So ordered .
