 THOMAS A. CLARK , Circuit Judge: The appellant, unable to meet his child support obligations, left the State of Georgia in search of vocational training opportunities.
1 He was subsequently convicted of child abandonment under Ga.
Code Ann. 74-9902 [1979 Supp.] and sentenced to three years' imprisonment.
After exhausting state remedies he filed a petition for habeas corpus under 28 U.S.C. 2254 , 2 which was denied.
On appeal he attacks the constitutionality of the statute.
We think the petition should have been granted and reverse.
In essence, the statute 3 makes the crime of child abandonment a misdemeanor if the offense occurs in Georgia, while making the same crime a felony if the abandoning parent leaves the State of Georgia or abandons the child after leaving the State.
The statute thus creates two classes of crimes, the first a misdemeanor for child abandonment within the State, the second a felony for leaving the State after abandonment or abandonment after leaving the State.
Those outside Georgia, merely by their presence outside the State, are exposed to risk of a felony conviction while Georgia residents are exposed only to risk of a misdemeanor conviction for the same actions.
We find the fundamental right to travel 4 is infringed by this classification system.
Employing "traditional" equal protection analysis, we are required to scrutinize strictly statutes which impermissibly interfere with the exercise of fundamental rights.
Strict scrutiny requires a state to have a compelling interest which outweighs the infringement.
5 Georgia argues that the compelling state interests here are (1) the greater ease in extraditing persons accused of felonies than those accused of misdemeanors and (2) the protection of the State's fiscal integrity by the resulting enforcement of required parental child support.
These arguments are unpersuasive since Georgia has in place, through its adoption of the Uniform Reciprocal Enforcement of Support Act (URESA), Ga.Code Ann. 99-9A , et seq., 6 an alternative means of enforcing child support obligations.
Fiscal integrity of the State, support of minor children, and extradition of the nonpaying parent are all protected by this Act.
7 We therefore find no sufficiently compelling state interest here which permits distinguishing between nonsupporting parents within or without the State of Georgia.
There is no question that the statute violates equal protection.
Further, even where a governmental purpose is legitimate, as here, the "purpose cannot be pursued by means that broadly stifle fundamental personal liberties when the end can be more narrowly achieved."
8 Again, URESA provides a less drastic means of achieving the ends sought by this overly broad statute.
The failure of the statute to require criminal intent as an element necessary for conviction is further indication of its overbreadth.
Under the provision a person leaving the State fully intending to support his or her children, but unable to do so, commits a felony.
A series of noncriminal acts can thus become a crime under the statute, subjecting the nonresident to extradition and felony conviction.
9 The advisability of a specific intent in statutes prohibiting the fundamental right to travel is illustrated by comparison to the federal "flight to avoid prosecution or giving testimony" statute, 18 U.S.C. 1073 .
In examining the requisite elements for a conviction of that offense, where the statute itself requires intent, we have observed that "the gravamen of the offense charged .
.
.
is that the defendant fled a state with intent to avoid prosecution therein, and mere absence from the state of prosecution, though it renders one a fugitive from justice for interstate rendition [citation omitted] is not sufficient proof of a federal crime."
10 (Emphasis supplied) Accordingly, we REVERSE and REMAND for the issuance of the writ.
11
