 PREGERSON , Circuit Judge: Ricardo Valenzuela-Bernal was indicted for transporting illegal aliens.
He moved to dismiss the indictment on the grounds that the Government violated his Fifth and Sixth Amendment rights by deporting several alien eyewitnesses without affording him an opportunity to interview them.
The district court denied his motion; Bernal was convicted.
We reverse.
FACTS Valenzuela-Bernal (Bernal), a Mexican citizen, entered the United States without inspection on March 23, 1980.
After his entry, Bernal was picked up by a "pollero" (a professional alien smuggler) and taken to a house in Escondido, California, where Bernal remained for six days.
On March 30, Bernal, as the driver, and five other persons left the house by car en route to Los Angeles.
As the car approached Temecula, California, Bernal, and presumably the passengers, saw a manned Border Patrol checkpoint.
Bernal slowed the car to about five miles per hour.
The border patrol agent spotted people lying on the floor of the car and signaled Bernal to stop.
Bernal accelerated and the border patrol agents then pursued him.
After a high speed chase on Interstate 15, Bernal stopped the car.
He and the other occupants scrambled out of the car and took off in different directions.
Bernal was immediately caught and arrested.
All but two of the passengers were arrested shortly thereafter.
After his arrest, Bernal made a statement to the Border Patrol.
When asked why he did not stop at the checkpoint, Bernal said: At this time the Border Patrol had a total of four aliens in custody: Bernal and three of his passengers.
The patrolmen interrogated all of the passengers, and, according to the patrolmen, all passengers testified that the defendant was the driver.
They said nothing exculpatory about him.
After discussing the case with an Assistant United States Attorney, the Border Patrol detained one passenger, Romero-Morales, and deported the other two to Mexico.
Bernal was indicted on one count of transporting an illegal alien, Romero-Morales, in violation of 8 U.S.C. 1324(a)(2) .
Bernal attempted but failed to secure the appearances of the deported alien witnesses at his trial.
He then moved to dismiss the indictment on the grounds that the Government's deportation of the alien witnesses violated his Fifth Amendment right to due process and Sixth Amendment right to call and confront witnesses.
The trial judge denied Bernal's motion.
After a bench trial on stipulated facts, Bernal was found guilty as charged and sentenced to five years in prison, of which all but 179 days were suspended.
DISCUSSION Bernal was convicted of violating 8 U.S.C. 1324(a)(2) which prohibits the knowing transportation of any illegal alien who has been in the United States for less than three years.
Bernal argues that the district court erred in denying his motion to dismiss the indictment.
He contends that the district court should have applied the doctrine enunciated in United States v. Mendez-Rodriguez , 450 F.2d 1 (9th Cir. 1971), to this case. In Mendez-Rodriguez , the defendant was indicted for transporting seven illegal aliens.
The Government detained three aliens and deported the others to Mexico without affording the defendant an opportunity to interview them.
At trial the defendant testified that he was unaware that the passengers in his car were illegal aliens.
The three aliens testified that they were Mexican nationals, who had entered this country without inspection, and that the defendant stopped his car and gave them a ride.
Mendez-Rodriguez was convicted.
In reversing his conviction, we held that the Government's action in placing potential alien witnesses beyond the court's subpoena power before the defendant was afforded an opportunity to interview and subpoena them violated the defendant's Fifth Amendment right to due process and Sixth Amendment right to compulsory process.
The considerations prompting this decision were more fully explained in United States v. Tsutagawa , 500 F.2d 420 (9th Cir. 1974): Mendez-Rodriguez Id. at 423 (citations omitted).
The Mendez-Rodriguez doctrine sweeps broadly.
As the dissent in that case pointed out, the court imposed no requirement of government misconduct or negligence before dismissal of an indictment is warranted.
450 F.2d at 6 .
Nor is a defendant required to show specific prejudice caused by the unavailability of the alien eyewitnesses.
Id. at 5 .
In fact, the defendant in Mendez-Rodriguez conceded that he was unable to show that the missing witnesses would have offered testimony favorable to the defense.
We found the defendant's concession 450 F.2d at 5 .
This court, in applying Mendez-Rodriguez , however, has consistently emphasized that unless a defendant could "conceivably benefit" from the deported witness's testimony, the absence of the witness, brought about by the Government, is not a denial of due process warranting dismissal or reversal.
United States v. Gonzalez , 617 F.2d 1358, 1363 (9th Cir.), cert. denied sub nom.
Patel v. United States , U.S. , 101 S.Ct. 268 , 66 L.Ed.2d 129 (1980); United States v. Orozco-Rico , 589 F.2d 433, 435 (9th Cir. 1978), cert. denied , 440 U.S. 967 , 99 S.Ct. 1518 , 59 L.Ed.2d 783 (1979).
The conceivable benefit in Mendez-Rodriguez stemmed from the fact that the deported aliens were eyewitnesses to, and active participants in, the crime charged, so that there was a strong possibility that they could have provided material and relevant evidence concerning the events constituting the crime.
See United States v. McQuillan , 507 F.2d 30, 32-33 (9th Cir. 1974).
1 Conversely, where a missing deported alien was not an eyewitness to the offense, we have been unwilling to assume that the alien's testimony could conceivably benefit the defendant.
2 Application of the Mendez-Rodriguez doctrine requires reversal of the district court's decision.
As in Mendez-Rodriguez , the Government here selected certain aliens for detention while returning others to Mexico; the deported aliens were eyewitnesses to, and active participants in, the crime charged, thus establishing a strong possibility that they could have provided material and relevant information concerning the events constituting the crime.
Moreover, the defendant asserted the defense that he was unaware of his passengers' status as illegal aliens.
This defense might have been corroborated by the missing witnesses.
We cannot accept the Government's argument that strict application of the Mendez-Rodriguez doctrine has never been followed in this circuit.
A survey of the Mendez-Rodriguez progeny shows that we have adhered to the essential elements of the original case. Those elements are (1) unilateral Government action denying a defendant access to a witness; and (2) prejudice, i. e. , loss of a conceivable benefit to the defendant from the missing witness's testimony.
3 Alternatively, the Government argues that Bernal's statement to the Border Patrol was a confession to the crime charged, and hence no defense theory could have been corroborated by the returned witnesses.
We do not agree.
Nowhere in Bernal's statement does he acknowledge that the passengers in the car were aliens who had been in the United States for less than three years.
Even inferring from Bernal's statement that Bernal knew the passengers were aliens would merely place him on equal footing with the defendant in Mendez-Rodriguez , who also knew the hitchhikers were aliens.
The crux of the case, rather, is whether Bernal knew the passengers were illegal aliens who had been in this country for less than three years.
The Government never asked Bernal if he knew his passengers were illegal aliens, and nowhere in his statement does Bernal confess such knowledge.
Nor did the district court find that Bernal had confessed to the knowing transportation of illegal aliens. 4 It is this knowledge of the illegal status of the aliens which is essential to the crime charged.
CONCLUSION The Mendez-Rodriguez doctrine applies to the facts of this case. The district court's denial of appellant's motion to dismiss the indictment is REVERSED.
REVERSED.
