 WILKEY , Circuit Judge: This case calls upon us to decide whether the Federal Reserve Board acted lawfully in permitting the Bankers Trust Company, a state member bank of the Federal Reserve System, 1 to act as agent in the sale of commercial paper.
After Bankers Trust began marketing commercial paper, A.G.
Becker, Inc., a broker-dealer in securities, and the Securities Industry Association ("SIA"), an organization representing over five hundred securities brokers and dealers, requested the Board to declare Bankers Trust's activities illegal and to bring appropriate enforcement action.
Becker and the SIA contended that Bankers Trust was in violation of sections 16 and 21 of the Glass-Steagall Act ("the Act"), which prohibit commercial banks, with certain exceptions, [**23] from buying, selling, or underwriting "securities."
2 The Federal Reserve Board determined, however, that the commercial paper marketed by Bankers Trust was not a "security" within the meaning of the Act.
3 Becker and the SIA then brought suit in the district court, which held the Board's determination to be invalid.
4 The Board appealed, and we reverse.
I. Facts "Commercial paper" refers to prime quality, negotiable promissory notes bearing very short maturities--generally 30 to 90 days. 5 Large, financially strong corporations use commercial paper to obtain funds for current needs.
Commercial paper is sold, in denominations averaging one million dollars or more, to large, sophisticated purchasers--money market mutual funds, bank trust departments, insurance companies and pension funds.
6 Bankers Trust began placing third party commercial paper in 1978.
7 Its issuers had the highest rating from at least one of the rating services for commercial paper issuers; its customers were part of the bank's established base of institutional investors, who regularly purchase short term instruments from the bank.
The bank offered to act as financial adviser to issuers of paper sold by the bank, and to extend credit to them, though for only a small portion of the unsold amount of the issue.
It did not commit itself to purchase unsold paper, but it did purchase in the secondary market commercial paper of issuers for which it had acted.
Bankers Trust was the first commercial bank to enter the commercial paper market in competition with the investment banks; other commercial banks awaited the outcome of subsequent legal proceedings.
Becker and the SIA requested the staff of the Federal Reserve Board to review the legality of Bankers Trust's activities.
The Board's general counsel, after extensive discussion with Becker, SIA, Bankers Trust and the SEC, issued an opinion declaring that commercial banks may lawfully act as agent for the issuer in the sale of commercial paper, "provided that the sales are limited to purchasers to whom commercial banks normally sell participations in loans."
8 Becker and the SIA then requested the Federal Reserve Board to review the [**24] decision of its general counsel and to proscribe the commercial paper activities of member banks.
After considering submissions by interested parties and conducting an on-site investigation of Bankers Trust's activities, the Board ruled that Bankers Trust's participation in the commercial paper market did not violate the Glass-Steagall Act or contravene public policy.
9 In a carefully reasoned opinion the Board first concluded that there was no indication in the language or legislative history of the Glass-Steagall Act that Congress considered commercial paper to be a "security," in which banks were forbidden to deal.
10 The Board noted that banks had traditionally traded in commercial paper, and that the Act had been intended to strengthen banks in the exercise of traditional banking functions.
The Board then turned to a "functional" analysis of the statutory terms, and concluded that, because commercial paper embodies short-term loans from a few sophisticated lenders to financially strong borrowers, it resembled a loan rather than a security for the purpose of the Glass-Steagall Act.
11 Because the Board ruled that commercial paper was not a "security," it did not reach the issue whether Bankers Trust was "issuing, underwriting, selling, or distributing" securities within the meaning of the Glass-Steagall Act.
12 Subsequently, the Board issued guidelines to ensure that sale of third party commercial paper did not give rise to "unsafe or unsound practices."
13 These guidelines permitted banks to sell only prime quality third party commercial paper with maturity of nine months or less and in denominations of over $100,000.
Banks could sell only to "financially sophisticated customers," and were forbidden to advertise to the general public.
Sales to the bank's fiduciary accounts, parent holding companies and nonbank affiliates were also forbidden.
Moreover, banks were required to maintain credit analyses of issuers, to limit the amount of paper sold for any issuer, and to maintain detailed records of sales, purchases and lines of credit extended.
Finally, various disclosure requirements were imposed.
SIA and Becker sought review in the district court of the Board's ruling that commercial paper was not a "security."
That court concluded that the Act's "plain language" barred commercial banks from trading in commercial paper.
14 It also found that the "broad framework" of the Act evinced Congress' intent to institute a sweeping prohibition of commercial banks' engaging in investment banking activities.
15 Finally, in response to the Board's "functional" analysis of commercial paper, the court averred that "[o]ne factor compels the conclusion that the commercial paper at issue here is [a security], and that crucial aspect is the role of Bankers Trust in the transaction."
16 For these reasons, the district court issued a declaratory judgment that the Board's ruling was contrary to law. 17 [**25] We reverse.
The district court gave insufficient weight to the expertise of the Federal Reserve Board--as the agency responsible for administering the nation's banking system--in interpreting the provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act.
Moreover, the language of the Act, its legislative history and the policies underlying it all support the Board's conclusions that commercial paper is not a "security" under the Act.
We discuss each of these findings in turn.
II.
Standard of Review The Supreme Court recently had occasion again to delineate the standard to be applied in the review of an agency's interpretation of a statute which it is charged to implement.
The task of the reviewing court is "not to interpret the statute as it [thinks] best but rather the narrower inquiry into whether the [agency's] construction was ' sufficiently reasonable ' to be accepted by a reviewing court To satisfy this standard it is not necessary for a court to find that the agency's construction was the only reasonable one or even the reading the court would have reached if the question initially had arisen in a judicial proceeding."
18 In particular, the Board's ruling in the present case warrants deference for a number of reasons.
First, the Board is "the type of agency to which deference should presumptively be afforded" because of the scope of its authority .
Congress has vested the Board with "primary and substantial responsibility for administering" federal regulation of the national banking system.
19 The Board exercises "general supervisory" powers over member banks, 20 and is responsible to bring enforcement actions to prevent member banks from engaging in "unsafe or unsound" banking practices.
21 The Board thus formulates national banking policy, and, in implementing this policy, exercises broad rulemaking and adjudicative powers.
Second, deference to the Board's conclusions is warranted by its expert knowledge of commercial banking .
"Not only because Congress has committed the [Federal Reserve] [S]ystem's operation to [the Board's] hands, but also because the system itself is a highly specialized and technical one, requiring expert and coordinated management in all of its phases, their judgment should be conclusive upon any matter which is open to reasonable difference of opinion.
Their specialized experience gives them an advantage judges cannot possibly have in ascertaining the meaning Congress had in mind in prescribing the standards by which they should administer [the system]."
22 Third, deference to an agency's construction of the statute is called for because the agency's decision applies general, undefined statutory terms --"notes and securities"--to particular facts.
While the Glass-Steagall Act contains a sweeping prohibition of commercial banks' trading in "securities," that term is, of course, not self-defining.
23 Moreover, we cannot assume that Congress intended the term to comprise a set of rigid and unchanging categories.
Rather, such statutory drafting "leave[s] the agency with the task of evolving definitions on a [**26] case-by-case basis."
24 The regulatory structure of the banking laws must be permitted to adapt to the changing financial needs of our economy.
25 Congress has delegated to the Federal Reserve Board, rather than to this court, the complex task of applying the Act's general proscriptions to current business reality.
We must therefore defer to the Board's interpretation of the statute if that interpretation is reasonable.
Finally, " the thoroughness evident in the consideration [of an agency's interpretation of a statute], the validity of its reasoning , [and] its consistency with earlier and later pronouncements " are factors that bear upon the amount of deference to be given to an agency's ruling.
26 In this instance, the agency's interpretation of the statute is based on a thorough and expert review of the relevant legal and policy considerations as well as of the facts of this case. The Board conducted an extensive inquiry into the operation of Bankers Trust commercial paper operations and the function of the commercial paper market; it clearly set forth its findings, conclusions, and bases for its reasoning.
27 And the Board's conclusion is consistent with prior decisions, including some roughly contemporaneous with the passage of the Glass-Steagall Act.
28 For these reasons, which we have considered in prior opinions and which may frequently be found of use in evaluating administrative agency decisions, we should hesitate to overturn the Board's decision as long as that decision is a reasonable interpretation of the Glass-Steagall Act.
And, as will appear below, the decision was reasonable.
We do not, however, rest merely on the deference to the conclusions of the Federal Reserve Board.
"[T]o accord deference is not to abdicate our duty to construe the statute, for 'the courts are the final authorities and are not obliged to stand aside and rubber-stamp their affirmance of administrative decisions that they deem inconsistent with a statutory mandate or that frustrate the congressional policy underlying a statute.'"
29 We therefore turn to an [**27] analysis of the application of the Glass-Steagall Act to the present case. III.
Application of the Glass-Steagall Act Taking account of appropriate deference to the Board's expertise and administrative responsibility, we find that its ruling and the reasoning which supports it are essentially correct.
An inquiry into the language and legislative history of the statute, and the policies underlying it, supports the Board's conclusion that the commercial paper marketed by Bankers Trust is not a "security" within the Glass-Steagall Act.
A. Background Congress passed the Glass-Steagall Act in 1933, in response to what it perceived to be the abuses which resulted from the involvement of commercial banks in securities underwriting.
Congress considered that commercial banks, by underwriting stocks, had fueled the rampant speculation that preceded the Great Depression.
Congress' principal concern in amending the banking laws, however, was to protect the solvency and integrity of the banks themselves.
30 Stock underwriting by commercial banks undermined bank solvency in a number of ways.
Most directly, commercial banks that engaged in underwriting tied up depositors' funds in the purchase of unsound or speculative securities.
These investments placed commercial deposits at risk.
31 The promotional pressures exerted by underwriting activities also threatened bank solvency.
To augment their commissions from securities sales, commercial banks used their credit facilities to lend to purchasers of securities.
32 Banks were also tempted to make unsound loans to client-issuers, because these loans might improve the balance sheet of these enterprises and thereby make their securities more marketable.
When speculative ventures failed, these loans to purchasers and issuers were often not repaid, undermining bank solvency and depositor confidence in the banks.
33 In addition to inducing commercial banks to purchase unsound securities and to make unsound loans, banks' participation in the securities market had more indirect effects on bank solvency.
Banks' association with speculative securities ventures undermine the confidence of bank depositors in the stability of the banks.
34 Moreover, banks which underwrote stock issues could not be relied upon to give prudent and disinterested investment advice to their depositors, for they naturally had an incentive to urge depositors to purchase shares of the issues the bank was underwriting.
35 Finally, these banks would also "dump" excess issues of unmarketable securities on their own trust departments.
36 Congress passed the Glass-Steagall Act to correct these abuses.
The Act is a prophylactic measure designed to prevent commercial banks from being exposed to the dangers which inevitably followed upon their participation in investment banking.
"Congress acted to keep commercial banks out of the investment banking business largely because it believed that the promotional incentives of investment banking and the investment banker's pecuniary stake in the success of particular investment opportunities was destructive of prudent and disinterested commercial banking and of public [**28] confidence in the commercial banking system."
37 B. Statutory language Congress accomplished the separation of commercial and investment banking in sections 16 and 21 of the Glass-Steagall Act.
We first ask whether the language of these sections clearly evinces a congressional determination to prohibit the activities in which Bankers Trust has engaged; if so, our inquiry necessarily comes to an end.
38 Section 16 provides that a bank "shall not underwrite any issue of securities or stock " and shall not "purchase for its own account any shares of stock of any corporation."
39 We can find nothing in the language of this section that explicitly articulates a congressional intent to bar commercial banks from trading in commercial paper.
The terms "securities" and "stock" are not defined by the Act; section 16 in no way refers explicitly to notes, the generic financial term which Congress might have used to encompass commercial paper.
40 Indeed, banks are authorized to "discount and negotiate promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange, and other evidences of debt " 41 It is clear, then, that section 16 does not prohibit banks from selling or underwriting all notes, but only "securities or stock"; and the section does not indicate whether the commercial paper at issue in this case is included within that statutory prohibition.
We turn then to section 21 of the Act, which forbids banks from underwriting "stocks, bonds, debentures, notes, or other securities " 42 Although this statutory provision explicitly refers to "notes," that term is susceptible of at least two interpretations.
First, it may refer to a specific type of long-term debt security, one that closely resembles a bond or debenture but is of shorter maturity.
43 A note in this sense, like a bond or a debenture, is issued under an indenture agreement to raise money available for an extended period of time as part of the corporation's capital structure.
An investment note differs from these other instruments in that it matures more quickly--in a few, rather than twenty or more, years.
Second, the term "notes" is sometimes used generically to refer to any promissory instrument regardless of maturity or negotiability.
44 In this sense, commercial paper may also be referred to as a promissory "note."
Such a note differs sharply from an investment "note": commercial paper is used to obtain short-term credit for current transactions, rather than capital funds for long-term projects.
Its maturity generally ranges from one to two months, and rarely exceeds nine months.
45 The language of section 21 suggests that Congress intended only to prohibit the marketing of investment notes- i.e. , that it intended to use "notes" in its more specific meaning.
Each of the terms listed by Congress--"stocks," "bonds," "debentures" and "notes"--refers to a specific type of long-term [**29] investment security.
46 In contrast, "notes" in the more general sense would also include financial instruments, such as commercial paper, which have little in common with these long-term investment securities.
47 Moreover, "notes" used in its more general sense would include debt instruments such as bonds and debentures; the explicit statutory reference to the latter would then be redundant.
48 For these reasons, specific inclusion of the terms "stocks," "bonds," and "debentures" suggests that the narrower meaning of the term "notes" was intended.
We conclude that the context in which the term "notes" is used strongly implies Congress' intent not to include commercial paper within the sweep of the Act's prohibition.
Both section 16 and section 21 thus demarcate a fundamental division between notes which represent commercial banking transactions--transactions which are, of course, permitted under the Act--and securities, such as investment notes, which commercial banks are prohibited from underwriting.
Section 16 indicates this distinction by authorizing commercial banks to negotiate "promissory notes," while forbidding banks to negotiate "securities or stocks."
Section 21 makes the distinction by barring banks from trading in specified instruments for raising capital as part of the permanent financial structure of a corporation--stocks, bonds, debentures and notes--while implicitly permitting transactions in other types of debt instruments.
And the language of these sections, while not conclusive, strongly suggests that sale of commercial paper should be treated as a "loan" rather than a sale of securities for the purposes of the Act.
C. Legislative history The distinction between commercial loans and securities emerges as well from an analysis of the legislative history.
Throughout its debates on the causes of the imperiled state of the banking industry, [**30] Congress nowhere considered the banks' activity in the commercial paper market as contributing to their difficulties.
49 The commercial paper market was simply not part of the problem to which the Glass-Steagall Act was addressed.
50 Rather, Congress focused its attention on the commercial banks' participation in "speculative" securities markets: their extensive underwriting of long-term holdings of high risk stocks and bonds.
For example, the Senate Report on the Act notes that "[t]he outstanding development in the commercial banking system during the prepanic period was the appearance of excessive security loans, and of over-investment in securities [A] very fruitful cause of bank failures has been the fact that the funds of various institutions have been so extensively 'tied up' in long-term investments ."
51 Congress condemned "the excessive use of bank credit in making loans for the purpose of stock speculation " 52 In short, the purpose of the Act was to reverse "a loose banking policy which had turned from the making of loans on commercial paper to the making of loans on security ."
53 The distinction between bank participation in the securities and in the commercial paper markets is also illustrated in Congress' treatment of section 2(b) of the McFadden Act.
54 Section 2(b) limited the amounts of "investment securities" national banks could hold.
55 It is clear, however, that commercial paper was not considered an "investment security" under the McFadden Act: banks were left free to trade in commercial paper without restriction.
56 It is significant, therefore, that Congress preserved the provisions of the McFadden Act when it passed the Glass-Steagall Act six years later.
57 The legislative history of the Glass-Steagall Act provides no indication that Congress intended to change the McFadden Act's definition of "investment security."
58 Moreover, it is unlikely that Congress would consider commercial paper to be a "security" but not an "investment [**31] security."
59 Thus, Congress' incorporation of the McFadden Act into the revised banking laws, like other aspects of the legislative history, indicates an intent to continue to leave banks free to deal in commercial paper.
D. The Analogy to the Securities Laws Plaintiffs suggest that we may infer Congress' intent from its use of the term "security" in two contemporaneous statutes--the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Both acts define "security" to include "any note."
60 There is no reason , however, to assume that Congress intended that term to bear the same meaning in these different statutory contexts.
Congress enacted the Glass-Steagall Act primarily to protect bank depositors .
61 By contrast, "[t]he primary purpose of the [Securities] Acts of 1933 and 1934 was to eliminate serious abuses in a largely unregulated securities market.
The focus of the Acts is on the capital market of the enterprise system: the sale of securities to raise capital for profit-making purposes, the exchanges on which securities are traded, and the need for regulation to prevent fraud and to protect the interest of investors ."
62 Therefore, although Congress used the term "securities" in both the Glass-Steagall and the Securities Acts, different interpretations of "securities" may follow upon the differing regulatory purposes behind the Acts.
63 "Because securities transactions are economic in character Congress intended the application of [the Securities Acts] to turn on the economic realities underlying a transaction " 64 Similarly, the Court has defined the term "securities" in the Glass-Steagall Act by analyzing the economic policy behind the Act--to protect bank depositors from the hazards which ensue when commercial banks enter the investment banking business.
65 In short, the Glass-Steagall Act uses the term "security" to fence off investment banking activities from commercial banks; the securities laws use the term to define the capital markets whose economic functioning is to be regulated by the securities laws.
Clearly, the scope of the term may differ in these differing contexts.
We must assign the term "security" a different meaning in the Glass-Steagall and the Securities Acts if a different interpretation is called for by the respective policies of those Acts.
66 [**32] The Supreme Court recently reaffirmed this approach to the Securities Acts in Marine Bank v. Weaver .
67 "The [Securities Exchange] Act was adopted to restore investors' confidence in the financial markets We have repeatedly held that the test [of whether an instrument is a "security"] 'is what character the instrument is given in commerce by the terms of the offer, the plan of distribution, and the economic inducements held out to the prospect.'"
68 Therefore, "[e]ach transaction must be analyzed and evaluated on the basis of the content of the instruments in question, the purposes intended to be served, and the factual setting as a whole."
69 In deciding that a certificate of deposit was not a security, Marine Bank noted two facets of the economics of these certificates: first, holders receive a fixed rate of interest rather than dividends based on profits; second, "[i]t is unnecessary to subject issuers of bank certificates of deposit to liability under the federal securities laws since the holders of bank certificates of deposit are abundantly protected under federal banking laws."
70 In short, the Court focused on the potential economic gains and losses of the investors , who are the intended beneficiaries of federal securities regulation, in deciding whether the purposes of that regulation would be furthered by its application to the instrument in question.
A different focus of analysis is called for under the Glass-Steagall Act, which aims at protecting the integrity of banks and the financial resources of depositors rather than investors .
We conclude that the meaning of the term "securities" under the securities laws is of little immediate relevance to the problem before us; rather, the example of these laws suggests the need for a careful economic analysis of the commercial paper market itself.
E. Functional Analysis of Commercial Paper The language and the legislative history of the Glass-Steagall Act strongly suggest that commercial paper should be viewed as a loan rather than as a "security" for the purposes of the Act.
However, as we have seen, neither the language nor direct evidence from the legislative history is decisive of the question before us.
There is no foolproof formula by which we can decide whether the commercial paper marketed by Bankers Trust constitutes a "security."
Rather, as the Board observed, 71 Because neither the literal language of the statute nor other expressions of congressional intent available to us directly indicate whether commercial paper is a "security," it is necessary to conduct a "functional analysis" of Bankers Trust's commercial paper to resolve this question.
The problem becomes whether classifying commercial paper as a "security" would further the policies of the Act.
As the Board phrased this inquiry: [**33] 72 In adopting this functional analysis, the Board followed the Supreme Court's reasoning in its recent cases construing the Glass-Steagall Act.
In Investment Company Institute v. Camp ( ICI I ) the Court noted that 73 Thus, if confronted with a banking practice which involves the sale of securities and for that reason threatens the "hazards" at which the Act is aimed, neither the Federal Reserve Board nor this court is free to "balance" these hazards against the perceived benefits of the proposed practice.
If the practice does not threaten to cause these hazards, however, we need undertake no such balancing.
Rather, we effectuate the will of Congress by concluding that the proposed banking practice is not within the scope of the statutory proscription.
For example, in ICI I the Court found that the bank's sale of participations in a bank-sponsored mutual fund posed the dangers that the Glass-Steagall Act was designed to prevent; the Court concluded that these participations were securities within the meaning of the Act.
74 Once these participations were found under this functional analysis to be "securities," the "literal language" of the Act prohibited sale by the bank.
75 The Federal Reserve Board, in resolving the present case, therefore correctly focused on whether the commercial paper marketed by Bankers Trust functioned economically as a loan or as a security.
Only if commercial paper displayed the economic characteristics of a "security" would the marketing of commercial paper by Bankers Trust cause the hazards the Act was designed to prevent.
The Board concluded that, in all relevant respects, the commercial paper had the economic characteristics of a loan.
76 We agree.
It is useful to review the traditional lending functions of commercial banks.
The commercial lender extends short-term credit to businesses to finance immediate needs for working capital.
77 To assure itself of [**34] timely repayment, the commercial bank carefully evaluates the credit-worthiness of the borrower and the borrower's representations as to the use of funds.
In recent years, the lender has characteristically been either a bank or a syndicate of lenders, which may include banks and lending institutions such as credit or mortgage companies.
78 We find that the commercial paper at issue here has the economic characteristics of a traditional loan.
Purchase of commercial paper, like lending by a commercial bank, represents a very reliable means by which the lender may earn a return on excess cash over a short period of time.
Several features of the commercial paper market are salient in this respect.
First, the default rate on commercial paper is extremely low: only highly solvent corporations, with the best possible bond ratings, are able to market commercial paper.
Indeed, the default rate on commercial paper is much lower than that on ordinary commercial loans made to high-grade commercial customers.
79 Second, Bankers Trust commercial paper, like most commercial loans, is of very short maturity: it is generally redeemable at face value within 30 to 90 days. 80 Short maturity not only makes commercial paper a very liquid investment; it also reduces risk, because the financially strong corporations which can issue commercial paper are unlikely to deteriorate over the short period during which purchasers must hold the paper.
Third, because commercial paper is sold by Bankers Trust in denominations averaging one million dollars or more, 81 this paper is placed only with sophisticated purchasers--large institutions such as pension funds, money market mutual funds, insurance companies and nonfinancial corporations with large amounts of idle cash.
82 These purchasers, like commercial banks, are well able to evaluate the riskiness of the investments by verifying representations about the issuers.
Three independent rating services also conduct thorough periodic investigations of issuers' financial condition.
83 For all these reasons, investment in commercial paper, far from resembling securities speculation, is less risky even than banks' ordinary commercial lending.
84 The key difference between the commercial paper sold by Bankers Trust and the traditional lending of commercial banks is that capital [**35] is lent by other investors rather than by the bank.
85 In the traditional loan transaction, the commercial bank purchases commercial paper; in the present case, the bank acts as agent in the sale of commercial paper.
The bank is simply on the other side of the transaction.
The question which faced the Board is whether commercial paper should be considered a "security" merely because the bank acts as the seller rather than the purchaser of the commercial paper- i.e. , whether the role of the bank in and of itself makes the transaction one prohibited by the Glass-Steagall Act.
86 We agree with the Board that Bankers Trust may sell as well as purchase commercial paper.
The bank's role as seller does not threaten the bank with those dangers which the Glass-Steagall Act was designed to prevent.
Because commercial paper is like a loan rather than a security, marketing of commercial paper by the bank does not have the same economic impact on the bank as would marketing of securities.
This is confirmed by an analysis of the dangers which the Glass-Steagall Act was designed to prevent.
87 One such danger was that bank underwriting of securities may "tie up" depositors' funds in speculative securities.
Bankers Trust's sale of commercial paper does not create this danger because of the features of commercial paper already noted.
First, the bank acts simply as an agent in the sale of commercial paper; it does not agree to purchase the paper on its own account- i.e. , with the funds of depositors.
88 Second, commercial paper is of prime quality, sold only by corporations with well-established credit ratings: commercial paper is not a "speculative" holding.
89 Third, commercial paper is held by the lender only for 30 to 90 days: 90 the lender may readily convert his holdings to cash and does not bear the risk of long-term fluctuations in the value of the enterprise.
The other set of dangers addressed by the Glass-Steagall Act comprises the conflicts of interest that arise when a commercial bank underwrites securities.
91 Again, Bankers Trust does not face these conflicts.
First, the bank cannot use its credit facilities in order to facilitate sale of its commercial paper.
Because the interest on a commercial loan is higher than that paid out on commercial paper, a purchaser of commercial paper would not use a commercial loan to finance its purchases.
92 Conversely, the bank is under no incentive to advance unsound loans to shore up its issuers of commercial paper, because these issuers must be, by the nature of the commercial paper market, financially sound.
93 Second, Bankers Trust is not in a position to abuse its reputation for prudence, or give unreliable financial advice to its depositors, in order to promote the sale of commercial paper.
Commercial paper is purchased only by large sophisticated buyers who are capable themselves of evaluating the wisdom of their investment.
94 Moreover, commercial paper is very low-risk, and is issued only by very solvent corporations about whose financial [**36] prospects information is widely available.
95 It is inconceivable that a commercial bank such as Bankers Trust could, under these conditions, seek improperly to influence potential purchasers of commercial paper.
96 Finally, the bank's reputation for prudence will not suffer by its association with the issue of commercial paper.
Commercial paper is a highly sound short-term investment.
And even if a commercial paper issuer were to default, the sophisticated purchasers of commercial paper will understand that this paper is not backed by the guarantees on commercial bank deposits.
The Board's "functional analysis" leads inexorably to the conclusion that Bankers Trust's commercial paper is not a "security" within the meaning of the Glass-Steagall Act.
Transactions in commercial paper display the key economic characteristics of a commercial bank loan; and, because of these characteristics, Bankers Trust's dealings in commercial paper pose none of the hazards the Glass-Steagall Act was designed to prevent.
IV.
Conclusion We thus agree with the Board that Bankers Trust may continue to deal in commercial paper without violating the Glass-Steagall Act.
The commercial paper it markets is not a "security" within the prohibitions of the Act.
Moreover, our reasoning applies to other commercial paper which falls within the Board's guidelines- i.e. , prime quality commercial paper, of maturity less than nine months, sold in denominations of over $100,000 to financially sophisticated customers rather than to the general public.
97 Commercial banks which deal in this paper are not subject to the risks which the Glass-Steagall Act was designed to prevent.
We hold therefore that commercial banks may sell third party commercial paper provided that they comply with the Board's guidelines.
It is appropriate to note, however, the limits to this holding.
It is conceivable that another type of commercial paper- e.g. , of smaller denominations, or issued to the general public--might be a "security" under the Glass-Steagall Act.
Commercial bank involvement in the market for such commercial paper may well undermine bank solvency or create unavoidable conflicts of interest.
Moreover, the present case does not require us to decide whether Bankers Trust is engaged in "underwriting."
A commercial bank is permitted to underwrite commercial paper so long as commercial paper is not a "security."
If other species of commercial paper prove to be a "security," however, the issue what constituted "underwriting" of commercial paper would then have to be decided.
Our opinion does not touch directly on other species of commercial paper.
As the commercial paper market and banking practices continue to evolve, the Board will be called upon to determine in varying fact situations the scope of activities that Congress [**37] intended to permit banks to undertake.
But these hypothetical situations are irrelevant to the problem before us.
Because the Board correctly applied its functional analysis to the instant case, the judgment of the district court is Reversed .
