 RALPH K. WINTER , Circuit Judge: This appeal involves a constitutional challenge to a provision of the New York Family Court Act 1 authorizing preventive detention of accused juvenile delinquents.
It was brought in the District Court as a habeas corpus class action against the defendant Paul Strasburg, Commissioner of the New York City Department of Juvenile Justice, under 28 U.S.C. 2254 , Robert Abrams, Attorney General of the State of New York, intervening as a defendant.
Judge Carter certified the class as "all juveniles who are now being held or will be held before these proceedings are concluded, in pretrial detention ," under the challenged statute.
A trial resulted in a record of documentary and testimonial evidence about the actual practice of the Family Court in utilizing preventive detention, including expert testimony by a Family Court Judge, statistical studies and a collection of representative case studies.
Judge Carter held the statute unconstitutional.
513 F.Supp.
691 (S.D.N.Y.1981).
He issued a judgment granting the writ to all juveniles detained under the challenged provisions at any time before conclusion of this action.
Defendants appealed.
We affirm on the grounds that the statutory scheme and practice under it violate the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment in that the period of pre-trial detention is utilized principally to impose punishment before adjudication of the alleged criminal acts.
THE STATUTORY SCHEME SUMMARIZED Since our decision rests on a belief that the Family Court Act does not accord procedural due process, it is important to understand the procedural structure of New York delinquency adjudications.
Although these juvenile proceedings are somewhat different from adult criminal proceedings in both ends and means, their major procedural stages have analogues in the adult criminal justice process.
A juvenile proceeding is initiated by a petition for delinquency, 2 a step analogous to an indictment.
The case then goes to fact-finding before a Family Court Judge, at which time the juvenile is either adjudicated a delinquent or the petition is dismissed.
3 The analogue in the criminal law is, of course, the trial and verdict.
The final stage is a determination of the disposition by a Family Court Judge, 4 analogous in the criminal law to adult sentencing.
We set out these analogues, not to argue that the constitutional limitations on juvenile courts are identical to those imposed on adult criminal tribunals, but solely to facilitate an understanding of the result we reach.
The statutory scheme can be summarized as follows.
The challenged provision is Section 739(a)(ii) .
It authorizes detention of a juvenile after filing of a petition, but before fact-finding, when a Family Court Judge determines "there is a serious risk that [the juvenile] may before the return date do an act which if committed by an adult would constitute a crime."
Juveniles detained under 739(a)(ii) are entitled to a probable cause hearing within three to six days and an expedited fact-finding hearing.
5 If delinquency is adjudicated at fact-finding, a probation investigation and, in the case of "designated felony acts," 6 a diagnostic assessment 7 precede the dispositional hearing.
The Family Court Judge can choose among several alternative dispositions, including suspension of judgment, 8 probation, 9 placement at home or with other individuals, 10 placement in a facility or school where treatment is available 11 or restrictive placement (incarceration).
12 The statutory criteria for determining the appropriate disposition emphasize the needs and best interests of the juvenile, the information provided by the probation investigation and diagnostic assessment, the character of the offense and the need for protection of the community.
13 Some alternatives, however, are foreclosed or available only on a limited basis.
The Family Court Judge has no option to transfer the juvenile to an adult criminal tribunal.
In addition, placement in a treatment facility turns upon the availability of space and the consent of the particular facility.
14 Even though a Family Court Judge may determine that placement for treatment is the appropriate disposition, therefore, the actual options in a particular case may be limited to probation or incarceration.
The statutory scheme thus contains facial incongruities.
Preventive detention is authorized solely upon a finding that a juvenile may do an act in the interim between the petition and fact-finding which would be a crime if done by an adult.
The potential crimes are not limited to felonies or violent crimes but include every act which constitutes a crime under the New York Penal Law. 15 The statute itself offers no procedural safeguards and does not set out substantive criteria, other than the conclusory "serious risk" test, such as prior court contacts or lack of family supervision, to limit which accused juveniles may be detained.
16 At disposition, on the other hand, elaborate statutory provision is made for collecting diagnostic and other information, and specific criteria are established to guide the Family Court Judge.
17 THE STATUTORY SCHEME IN PRACTICE The incongruities of the statutory scheme yield a paradoxical result in practice.
The parties have waged a battle of statistics regarding the actual disposition of cases involving juveniles detained under 739(a)(ii) .
18 However, one critical fact has been established--the vast majority of juveniles detained under 739(a)(ii) either have their petitions dismissed before an adjudication of delinquency or are released after adjudication.
Of the representative case studies submitted as evidence, for example, the defendants' version of events indicates that well over two-thirds of the juveniles held under 739(a)(ii) were released at or before the dispositional hearing.
19 The result in practice is that the vast majority of juveniles considered sufficiently dangerous by the Family Court to justify pre-trial incarceration under 739(a)(ii) are in fact released by prosecutors or by the Family Court within days or weeks.
Defendants attribute this peculiar result to the statutory incongruities described above.
Detention decisions under 739(a)(ii) emphasize crime prevention and are made on the basis of limited information presented in summary fashion.
Dispositional determinations, on the other hand, take the juvenile's welfare and potential for treatment into account and are based on more detailed and extensive information.
The defendants offered expert testimony by a Family Court Judge concerning the actual practice under the statutory scheme.
20 He testified that the detention hearing under 739(a)(ii) usually involves only the Family Court Judge, a prosecutor, a Court Liaison Officer, the juvenile, his or her attorney, and the parents or their representative.
21 It takes place soon after the arrest and a stenographic record is kept.
In the typical case, the evidence before the Judge is limited to: (a) the petition for delinquency and an affidavit by a witness stating the petition is accurate; (b) a recommendation by the Court Liaison Officer to detain or release the juvenile based on inquiries and recommendations made by a probation officer who is usually not present; (c) statements by the juvenile or his or her attorney and by the parents or other persons accompanying the juvenile.
22 The Family Court Judge testified that the criteria utilized in practice under 739(a)(ii) emphasize matters going solely to the protection of the community.
These include prior record, recent court contacts, seriousness of the charge, and adequacy of supervision.
23 He emphasized that the criteria do not include the interests of the child and often result in confinement under circumstances harmful to the juvenile.
24 The same witness testified that the factors taken into account at the dispositional hearing differ substantially from those utilized at the 739(a)(ii) hearing.
At disposition, the best interests of the child are the principal concern and further detention is regarded as a "harsh solution."
25 Moreover, considerably more information about the child is before the Family Court Judge at the dispositional hearing than is available at the 739(a)(ii) hearing.
Not only is the information more complete and up-to-date, but psychological assessments are also provided.
26 Two other facts influence the lenient disposition of adjudicated delinquents.
First, as the evidence of the defendants demonstrated 27 and as they emphasized at oral argument, 28 the time served, including the preventive detention period, is frequently considered sufficient punishment by the Family Court.
Juveniles detained under 739(a)(ii) may be held in a secure facility and exposed to assault and criminal subcultures.
29 Family Court Judges who consider detention "harsh" in the first place and not in the juvenile's interests, will understandably give great weight to prior confinement.
Second, as already noted, placement in a treatment facility, an intermediate disposition between probation and incarceration, is feasible only when a treatment facility has space and agrees to accept the child.
In some cases, therefore, the Family Court Judge may face a choice between a disposition regarded as too lenient and another regarded as too harsh.
The former may then be chosen as more likely to further the best interests of the child.
The practical inability to provide placement in a treatment facility for criminally inclined juveniles has led to public expressions of frustration by Family Court Judges in response to criticisms of lenient dispositions.
30 Prosecutors take into account judicial attitudes in the juvenile analogue to plea bargaining, and the dismissal rate is accelerated in the anticipation that particular juveniles will be released even if adjudicated delinquent.
The record indicates that a large percentage of juveniles detained under 739(a)(ii) in fact have their petition dismissed before fact-finding.
Of the case studies, the defendants' version indicates that over one-third were released under such circumstances.
31 The net result of this combination of statutory language and conscious judicial practice thus is that by far the greater number of juveniles incarcerated under 739(a)(ii) will never be confined as a consequence of a disposition imposed after an adjudication of delinquency, the usual course of events being either a dismissal before adjudication or release upon a post-adjudication dispositional hearing.
32 DISCUSSION The presumption of innocence and the requirement that guilt be proven beyond a reasonable doubt are important elements of Due Process itself, In re Winship , 397 U.S. 358 , 90 S.Ct. 1068 , 25 L.Ed.2d 368 (1970), which would be gravely diminished in the protection they afford if individuals can be routinely incarcerated pending trial.
Even the most persuasive demonstration of innocence cannot prevent the deprivation of liberty if incarceration precedes, rather than follows, the adjudication of criminal liability.
The only exceptions presently recognized to this general rule appear to be brief detentions pending bail hearings, detention for failure to post bail subject to the Eighth Amendment's prohibition on "excessive" bail, or in limited classes of cases, denial or revocation of bail.
See generally C. White-bread, Criminal Procedure 17.01-17.03 (1980).
The extent to which exceptions other than those relating to bail may be carved out is not clear.
We believe all would agree, however, that any exception to the general rule that incarceration follow, rather than precede, adjudications of guilt can be justified, if at all, by a compelling governmental interest.
Cf. Gerstein v. Pugh , 420 U.S. 103 , 95 S.Ct. 854 , 43 L.Ed.2d 54 (1975).
The defendants argue, in the case of 739(a)(ii), that crime prevention is such an interest.
That statute ostensibly responds to calls for preventive detention to protect the community from criminally inclined individuals.
As conceived by its proponents, preventive detention is a method of confining inherently dangerous individuals accused of crimes pending trial and sentence of confinement.
See Note, Preventive Detention Before Trial , 79 Harv. L. Rev. 1489 , 1496-98 (1966).
The underlying theory is not that propensity alone justifies confinement but that the expectation of an adjudication of guilt and subsequent sentence of confinement, along with a finding of propensity, justifies protecting the community from the individual in the interim period.
Hruska, Preventive Detention: The Constitution and the Congress , 3 Creighton L. Rev. 36, 46 (1969).
Such a scheme raises serious constitutional questions which the parties have asked us to address.
We decline, however, to reach those issues because 739(a)(ii) is utilized principally, not for preventive purposes, but to impose punishment for unadjudicated criminal acts.
Crime prevention simply does not provide a justification for the detention of the vast majority of juveniles actually held under 739(a)(ii).
Family Court Judges, we are told, release large numbers of detainees at disposition because much more information pertaining to the particular juvenile is available there than at the detention stage and because the Judges tend to find that the time already served is punishment enough.
While the record is silent as to explanations for the similarly large number of prosecutorial dismissals before adjudication, it can be inferred that such cases as a class involve facts even less compelling as to guilt or appropriateness of further incarceration.
Accepting the defendants' view, the vast majority, in all likelihood over two-thirds, of the 739(a)(ii) detainees fall into one or more of the following categories: (1) those against whom the evidence of guilt is weak or insufficient; (2) those who are not so dangerous that they cannot be released after a short period of detention; and (3) those who are regarded as having served enough time in confinement.
Crime prevention is not a sufficiently compelling governmental interest as to any of these detainees to justify shortcutting the fundamental procedural requirement that imprisonment follow, rather than precede, adjudication.
Category (1) involves detainees ultimately released by prosecutorial dismissal or on a judicial finding of insufficient evidence.
As to them, incarceration is imposed but guilt is never adjudicated.
Category (2) involves detainees about whom a mistaken judgment was made in the course of the summary hearing held under 739(a)(ii).
As to them, no constitutional purpose justifies their detention.
Category (3) involves adjudicated delinquents considered to have been punished enough by the time served.
No compelling governmental interest justifies the imposition of sanctions on members of this group before, rather than after, adjudication.
As to them, detention serves the purpose of punishment rather than crime prevention, since early release--within days or at most a few weeks--by a Family Court Judge contradicts any asserted need for pre-trial confinement to protect the community.
33 In practice, therefore, the vast majority of the pre-trial detentions involve either mistakes in judgment fostered by 739(a)(ii)'s procedurally and substantively unlimited terms or the imposition of incarceration solely as punishment for unadjudicated crimes.
To the degree that the goal of crime prevention is implicated at all in the actual operation of 739(a)(ii), it is only as to the minority, perhaps less than one-third, of the juveniles actually detained under its provisions.
As to this group, moreover, only the risk that some might commit crimes is eliminated.
In re Winship , supra , directly ruled that an adjudication of delinquency which entails the possibility of institutional confinement must rest on proof beyond a reasonable doubt, because such confinement is constitutionally analogous to punishment for criminal acts.
The provision invalidated in Winship under the Due Process Clause was in fact a provision of the New York Family Court Act which applied a preponderance of the evidence test in delinquency adjudications.
The practice under 739(a)(ii) is, if anything, more offensive since confinement is imposed initially only upon a verified petition and later at best upon a finding of probable cause.
34 The Family Court Judge ordering detention is well aware that most detainees will either not go to fact-finding or, if they do, will be released on probation.
Section 739(a)(ii) thus incarcerates--punishes--large numbers of persons upon a standard of proof which is constitutionally invalid and which cannot be justified in the name of crime prevention.
Section 739(a)(ii) thus has an unconstitutional impact as to the vast majority of the juveniles detained under it.
We must now determine whether the statute is invalid as to all juveniles or whether individual detainees must litigate the particular circumstances of their confinement.
We hold 739(a)(ii) unconstitutional as to all juveniles.
The preponderant number of persons affected by its terms suffer punishment without adjudication of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt and absent a compelling governmental interest.
Individual litigation, however, is a practical impossibility because the periods of detention are so short that the litigation is mooted before the merits are determined.
Moreover, the record clearly demonstrates that the unconstitutional impact of the statute results directly from its substantively and procedurally unlimited terms which cause Family Court Judges to incarcerate juveniles they know will be released before or at disposition.
Whether we view the statutory scheme as commanding the results it in fact attains or as simply failing "to provide sufficiently clear guidance for police, prosecutors and the courts to enforce [it] in a manner consistent with [the Due Process Clause]," United States ex rel.
Newsome v. Malcolm , 492 F.2d 1166 (2d Cir.1974) aff'd sub nom.
Lefkowitz v. Newsome , 420 U.S. 283 , 95 S.Ct. 886 , 43 L.Ed.2d 196 (1975), matters not, for under either view it violates constitutional guarantees.
35 Our decision is strictly limited to the precise issue before us.
We hold only that pre-trial detention may not be imposed for anti-crime purposes pursuant to a substantively and procedurally unlimited statutory authority when, in all likelihood, most detainees will either not be adjudicated guilty or will not be sentenced to confinement after an adjudication of guilt.
In such circumstances, the detention period serves as punishment imposed without proof of guilt established according to the requisite constitutional standard.
We intimate no view as to the constitutionality of preventive detention in other circumstances.
The sole remaining issue is the scope of the relief granted.
Judge Carter allowed this habeas corpus action to proceed as a class action, certifying the class as "all juveniles who are now being held or will be held before these proceedings are concluded, in pretrial detention under 739(a)(ii) " Appellants do not challenge this certification.
His order, entered on June 1, 1981, provided that the writ be granted as to all members of that class, i.e. , those detained under 739(a)(ii) at any time before this action is concluded.
Appellants challenge the order on the grounds that it grants in futuro release to individuals whose incarceration begins only after entry of judgment in the District Court.
Class actions are permissible in habeas corpus proceedings, United States ex rel.
Sero v. Preiser , 506 F.2d 1115 (2d Cir.1974), cert. denied 421 U.S. 921 , 95 S.Ct. 1587 , 43 L.Ed.2d 789 (1975), and the writ is available to attack future confinement, Peyton v. Rowe , 391 U.S. 54 , 88 S.Ct. 1549 , 20 L.Ed.2d 426 (1968).
It is also clear, however, that the remedy of habeas corpus is directed to the unlawful custody of individuals, while prospective relief against enforcement of an invalid statute must be obtained in an action for an injunction under 42 U.S.C. 1983 .
See Preiser v. Rodriguez , 411 U.S. 475 , 93 S.Ct. 1827 , 36 L.Ed.2d 439 (1973).
The prospective effect of Judge Carter's order affects only those detained in custody while this action continues, not those who may be detained thereafter.
We believe that the "in custody" language of 28 U.S.C. 2254 does not require institution of repeated individual actions for each new detainee while an appeal from a judgment in a class action is being actively considered.
The fact of potential custody is clearly present during the period of litigation, and the defendants are always free to seek a stay of any such order from the appellate court.
The order below thus does not significantly expand use of the writ.
36 Affirmed.
