 The Southeast Alaska Seine Boat Owners and Operators Assoc. and the Alaska Trollers Assoc., Inc. ("appellants") challenge the district court's denial of their motion to intervene in Southeast Alaska Conservation Council, Inc. v. Watson, No. J81-012 CIV (D. Alaska filed Aug. 27, 1981).
We hold that the district court abused its discretion in denying appellants' motion to intervene as of right under Fed. R. Civ. P. 24(a)(2) .
See Petrol Stops Northwest v. Continental Oil Co. , 647 F.2d 1005 , 1009 (9th Cir. 1981) (appellate court will overturn an intervention as of right motion as untimely only if the district court abused its discretion).
A motion to intervene meets the requirements of Fed. R. Civ. P. 24(a)(2) for intervention as of right if: (1) the motion is timely; (2) the movant asserts an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the action; (3) without intervention the disposition of the action may as a practical matter impair or impede the movant's ability to protect that interest; and (4) that interest is inadequately represented by the other parties.
Fed. R. Civ. P. 24(a)(2) ; Petrol Stops Northwest , 647 F.2d at 1009 ; County of Fresno v. Andrus, 622 F.2d 436 , 438 (9th Cir. 1980).
All four requirements for intervention as of right are met in this case. First, we conclude that the motion was timely.
The factors to be weighted in determining timeliness are: (1) the stage of the proceedings at which the motion was filed, (2) the reasons for and length of delay, and (3) the prejudice to other parties if intervention is permitted.
Petrol Stops Northwest , 647 F.2d at 1009 ; Alaniz v. Tillie Lewis Foods, 572 F.2d 657 , 659 (9th Cir.) (per curiam), cert. denied sub nom.
Beaver v. Alaniz, 439 U.S. 837 , 99 S.Ct. 123 , 58 L.Ed.2d 134 (1978).
Although appellants' motion was not made until six months after the suit was filed, important issues remain to be adjudicated which will substantially affect appellants' interests.
These issues include the resolution of the claim that certain statutory provisions have been violated that pertain to the gathering of base line environmental data.
Furthermore, allowing appellants to intervene will not prejudice appellees or delay the litigation because appellees do not seek further discovery or relitigation of any issues already decided.
Second, to obtain intervention as of right appellants must assert an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the action.
647 F.2d at 1009 .
In this case, appellants have a strong economic interest in the quality of the environment and possess valuable information and knowledge to bring to the lawsuit.
Third, appellants must show that the disposition of the action may impair appellants' ability to protect their interests unless intervention is allowed.
There is no question that the outcome of the lawsuit will substantially affect the economic interests of appellants.
If appellants are not allowed to intervene, they will be unable to bring their particular knowledge and expertise to the issue of whether the statutory provisions regarding the gathering of base line environmental data have been violated.
The fourth consideration is whether the interest of appellants is adequately represented by the other parties.
The district court denied intervention to appellants on the basis that appellants' interests are adequately represented by Southeast Alaska Conservation Council, Inc. ("SEACC").
We agree that SEACC has shown itself to be a vigorous and capable litigator in this case.
Nevertheless, SEACC's interest in maintaining the quality of the environment is primarily for ethetic and recreational reasons, whereas the fishing groups' interest is primarily economic.
All four requirements for intervention are met in this case.
We therefore conclude that the district court abused its discretion in denying the motion of the Southeast Alaska Seine Boat Owners and Operators Assoc. and the Alaska Trollers Assoc., Inc. to intervene as of right under Fed. R. Civ. P. 24(a)(2) .
Consequently, we reverse and remand for proceedings consistent with this memorandum disposition.
The appeal is dismissed, however, as to the United Southeast Gillnetters, Inc. 1 REVERSED and REMANDED as to the Southeast Alaska Seine Boat Owners and Operators Assoc. and the Alaska Trollers Assoc., Inc.
DISMISSED as to the United Southeast Gillnetters, Inc.
