 LAY , Chief Judge.
This case comes before us on an order issued to attorney Robert Snyder of Bismarck, North Dakota, to show cause why he should not be suspended from practice in the federal courts.
Attorney Snyder has been cited: (1) for his refusal to continue to perform services in indigent cases under the Criminal Justice Act (CJA) 18 U.S.C. 3006A (1982); and (2) for his disrespectful refusal to comply with the guidelines under the CJA relating to the submission of expenses and attorney fees.
Facts On March 14, 1983, Attorney Snyder was appointed by Judge Bruce Van Sickle of the District of North Dakota to represent an indigent defendant under the CJA.
There is no issue concerning his services being performed competently.
After the proceedings, pursuant to 3006A(d)(4) of the CJA, Attorney Snyder submitted to the district court a claim for services and expenses in the amount of $1,898.55.
On August 17, the district court judge reduced the claim by $102.50 and approved the modified request.
Under the CJA, the chief judge of this court must review and approve any expenditures for compensation in excess of the $1,000 limit.
18 U.S.C. 3006A(d)(3) .
Snyder's application was deficient in that the CJA requires an attorney to attach a memorandum of hours expended and an itemized list of expenses.
1 Snyder did not attach the necessary information to his application.
Accordingly, his application was returned to the district court with the request that Attorney Snyder provide the proper attachments.
Thereafter, Snyder returned the application to the secretary of the district judge with a monetary, not an hourly, breakdown of his time and again without the requested itemization of expenses.
2 Once again his application was returned by the chief judge with the notation that compliance with the CJA guidelines was still necessary to process the application.
Snyder then sent to the district judge's secretary a letter, dated October 6, "for the purpose of responding to" the chief judge's request.
Snyder stated that he was "appalled" at the small amount paid to attorneys for indigent criminal defense work.
He indicated his displeasure at the "extreme gymnastics" required to receive "puny amounts."
He then stated to the court: "We have sent you everything we have concerning our representation, and I am not sending you anything else.
You can take it or leave it."
Snyder concluded his letter by stating that he was "extremely disgusted" by the treatment of him by the Eighth Circuit, that he wished to be taken off the list of attorneys willing to accept appointment in indigent cases, and that he had "simply had it."
3 Upon receipt of this information, the chief judge requested the district court to confer with Snyder and to determine if Snyder would retract his disrespectful remarks to the court.
Snyder refused.
On December 22, 1983, this court issued an order to show cause why he should not be suspended from the practice of law in the federal courts for his refusal to offer services under the CJA and to comply with relevant guidelines.
Snyder requested a hearing by the full court.
See Fed.R.App.P.
46(c) .
The full court voted to refer the matter to a panel.
At oral argument, Attorney Snyder was requested once again to purge himself, as an officer of the court, by agreeing to accept appointment under the Act and by otherwise complying with the Act's guidelines.
The panel also requested him to demonstrate in writing that he would be respectful in his relations with the federal courts and to offer a retraction and sincere apology for his disrespectful remarks rendered in his letter of October 6.
Snyder conditionally offered his continued services under the CJA, but contumaciously refused to retract his previous remarks or apologize to the court.
Attorney Snyder's Remarks to the Court We first turn to Snyder's refusal to comply with the guidelines under the CJA for documentation of expenses.
An integral part of Snyder's refusal to comply with CJA guidelines was his explicit statement of disrespect to the federal court.
Snyder's conduct not only constituted disrespect but served as well to impede the orderly processing of attorney fee applications.
In this direct sense he has served to impede the administration of justice.
As a member of the North Dakota bar and as a licensed practitioner in both the federal district court and the court of appeals, Attorney Snyder is bound by the ethical canons of the legal profession.
4 The relevant disciplinary rule states: "A lawyer shall not: Engage in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of justice."
The Model Code of Professional Responsibility, DR 1-102(A)(5) .
5 Equally important is the recognition that an attorney must maintain the proper respect for the court as an institution.
As stated in the Model Code: Id. at EC 9-6 .
As we will discuss, Snyder now conditionally has offered to serve in indigent cases and to comply with the CJA guidelines.
However, in a letter to the court he has otherwise refused to retract or apologize for his disrespectful remarks to the court.
He asserts that, although his remarks were "harsh," as a "matter of principle" no further statement is due the court.
Letter from Robert J. Snyder to Chief Judge Lay (February 27, 1984).
We find Snyder's present statement that he will conditionally comply with the guidelines not enough.
His refusal to show continuing respect for the court and his refusal to demonstrate a sincere retraction of his admittedly "harsh" statements are sufficient to demonstrate to this court that he is not presently fit to practice law in the federal courts.
All courts depend upon the highest level of integrity and respect not only from the judiciary but from the lawyers who serve in the court as well.
Without public display of respect for the judicial branch of government as an institution by lawyers, the law cannot survive.
6 This is not to say that courts cannot and should not be subject to proper criticism and comment; however, when an attorney becomes disrespectful in response to a court's request that counsel comply with a congressional mandate, then we deal with a different matter.
Without hesitation we find Snyder's disrespectful statements as to this court's administration of CJA contumacious conduct.
We deem this unfortunate.
We find that Robert Snyder shall be suspended from the practice of law in the federal courts of the Eighth Circuit for a period of six months; thereafter Snyder should make application to both this court and the federal district court of North Dakota to be readmitted.
Implementation of the CJA in North Dakota .
In further response to the show cause order Attorney Snyder alleges that the implementation of the CJA in North Dakota relies exclusively on an attorney list of those "willing" to serve.
He therefore asserts that his refusal to accept any future CJA cases was in compliance with the plan and that he should not be censured for his lack of willingness to serve any more than the vast number of lawyers within the district who were not on the list by reason of their unwillingness to serve.
Second, Snyder asserts that, because he lives in a rural area with a smaller population and his firm is willing to try criminal cases, whereas the vast number of lawyers in the district are not so willing, his firm receives a disproportionate number of appointments under the CJA.
He also protests that the statutory fee under the CJA is inadequate to compensate him even for his overhead.
Third, Snyder complains that the North Dakota list of attorneys willing to serve is not a current list; it does not include lawyers newly admitted to the bar and includes a number of lawyers who are deceased or inactive.
He asserts, however, that he is now willing to continue to serve on the CJA panel provided that other qualified attorneys are placed on the list for appointment.
We find merit in Snyder's conditional offer of service.
This court has consistently recognized the duty of an attorney practicing in the federal courts, as an implied obligation, to serve willingly as an officer of the court in a capacity pro bono publico (for the public good).
See, e.g. , Peterson v. Nadler , 452 F.2d 754, 758 (8th Cir.1971).
In the case of Tyler v. Lark we noted: Tyler v. Lark , 472 F.2d 1077, 1079 (8th Cir.1973) (quoting United States v. Dillon , 346 F.2d 633, 635 (9th Cir.1965), cert. denied , 382 U.S. 978 , 86 S.Ct. 550 , 15 L.Ed.2d 469 (1966)), cert. denied , 414 U.S. 864 , 94 S.Ct. 114 , 38 L.Ed.2d 84 (1973).
Many state courts have similarly observed that counsel must assist the court by carrying on pro bono representation in criminal cases.
See, e.g. , Ex parte Dibble , 310 S.E.2d 440, 441 (S.C.Ct.App.1983) ("It has been traditionally held that a lawyer, by accepting a license to practice law, becomes an officer of the court and assumes the obligation of representing, without pay, indigent defendants in criminal cases.
"); Yarbrough v. Superior Court of Napa County , 150 Cal.App.3d 388, 395 , 197 Cal.Rptr.
737, 741 (Ct.App.1983) ("An attorney is an officer of the court before which he or she was admitted to practice and is expected to discharge his or her professional responsibilities [to represent indigents] at all times, particularly when expressly called upon by the courts to do so.").
Recently, the Supreme Court of Missouri held that attorneys licensed to practice in the state could be appointed to serve in criminal cases with no compensation: State ex rel.
Wolff v. Ruddy , 617 S.W.2d 64, 65-66 (Mo.1981) (quoting Anton-Hermann Chroust, 1 The Rise of the Legal Profession in America x-xi (1965)), cert. denied , 454 U.S. 1142 , 102 S.Ct. 1000 , 71 L.Ed.2d 293 (1982).
The profession of law rests upon its commitment to public service and has long been recognized as a profession that requires its membership to engage in pro bono activities.
Acceptance of appointment under the CJA, a service that lawyers do not perform totally without compensation, is consistent with this obligation of the members of the bar.
7 Before the CJA provided for compensation, many lawyers willingly accepted the defense of indigents in federal criminal cases without expectation of any compensation.
The CJA was a recognition by Congress that indigent criminal defendants should have an opportunity to receive the services of competent counsel.
Although the compensation allowed by the Act was never intended to fully recompense the lawyer for the time spent on a case, Congress intended that the amount allowed would at least approach the cost of a lawyer's overhead.
It is true that the allowances awarded are much lower than the fees charged by many lawyers in non-indigent cases.
However, the Act is intended to contain elements of pro bono work and not to be merely a government-subsidized, employment service.
8 The North Dakota plan which contemplates that only lawyers who willingly volunteer for appointments will be assigned to indigent cases appears to rest on the Model Plan approved by the Criminal Justice Committee of the Judicial Conference.
9 Nonetheless, we find that Snyder's objections raise considerable concern as to the efficacy of any plan which depends totally upon voluntary participation.
10 We find merit in the reasoning that there is an implied obligation to perform pro bono trial services on every licensed attorney who is engaged in litigation, not just those who are willing to come forward.
The plan as now constituted penalizes those who specialize in criminal law because more than their share of the district's pro bono work falls on their shoulders; under a voluntary plan, particularly in rural areas, only a few attorneys come forward and this unduly results in a disproportion of assignments to a minority of the lawyers practicing in the district.
Also, appointing only those who feel they have competence in criminal cases in no way assures competency; it is common knowledge that many counsel appointed by district courts under the CJA are young lawyers just out of law school trying to gain early experience in the trial of cases.
Because Snyder is participating under a plan which is purely voluntary, his refusal to serve is in technical compliance with the plan.
However, his conditional agreement to serve in the future, if other attorneys who are competent to try cases are included on the panel, also has considerable merit.
Under the Criminal Justice Act each district is required to submit for approval its plan for implementation of the CJA to the Judicial Council of the Circuit.
18 U.S.C. 3006A(a) .
We therefore refer the study as to alleged insufficiency of participation of the bar in the panels of the CJA to the district courts and the Judicial Council.
We recognize that any requirement that all active, licensed trial practitioners be eligible for appointment under the CJA raises the immediate question of competency and the continuing concern of the courts and the bar over the increasing number of suits relating to the charge of ineffective assistance of counsel in criminal cases.
But in our judgment the fear of incompetent counsel being appointed is, for the most part, exaggerated.
The most common successful complaint relating to ineffective assistance of counsel is the failure of the lawyer to adequately investigate the case and to call defense witnesses.
See, e.g. , United States v. Baynes , 687 F.2d 659 (3rd Cir.1982); Eldridge v. Atkins , 665 F.2d 228 (8th Cir.1981), cert. denied , 456 U.S. 910 , 102 S.Ct. 1760 , 72 L.Ed.2d 168 (1982); Rummel v. Estelle , 590 F.2d 103 (5th Cir.1979).
Competent lawyers who specialize in civil trials know that the success or failure of a trial depends on the thoroughness of the investigation of facts and of the trial preparation.
This basic rule of trial preparation is true for civil as well as criminal cases; the attorney who is competent to practice in civil matters is competent to appear in criminal cases.
Lawyers who specialize in civil cases must necessarily engage in a diversity of study in all spheres of our social, political, and economic systems.
The step across to the criminal law, by the experienced civil trial attorney, is really no step at all.
We also recognize that many civil trial lawyers are not currently conversant with the Rules of Criminal Procedure and the various rules governing the practice of criminal law. 11 Nonetheless we would deem it incumbent on the civil trial bar to become familiar with these rules, as they would any other procedural or substantive rule of law not previously encountered.
Most civil lawyers are generalists; when confronted with a specialized area of litigation, they quickly master the law and the facts.
Few lawyers process their first appeal to this court or to the Supreme Court of the United States without doing special study to master the new procedure at hand.
We suggest that it is no more difficult to conduct a criminal trial than it is to conduct an intricate 10b-5 securities case or a complicated products-liability case. Much of the criticism that has been leveled at the trial bar as to the lack of effective representation has focused on lawyers representing indigents in criminal cases.
12 While ineffective assistance of counsel certainly can occur in appointed-counsel cases, charges of incompetency of the criminal trial bar are distorted by the placing of the burden of indigent representation totally on a small segment of the bar.
Skilled and experienced civil trial attorneys, some of the best advocates in the profession, are excused from service under the CJA by the Model Plan and district plans adopted in conformity therewith.
It is immaterial whether their absence is related to the lack of economic incentive to serve under the CJA or to their alleged lack of experience in the criminal field.
Clearly, when such a large number of competent trial attorneys are categorically removed from participation, services rendered to indigents will not consistently meet the highest standards of criminal representation.
We do not believe that Congress, in passing the CJA, intended pro bono representations to fall upon the few; in this sense we think careful study by the district courts and the Judicial Council should be given to the idea that all active trial lawyers in the federal courts be obligated to provide pro bono services to the indigent either in the civil law or in the criminal defense field.
Cf. Nelson v. Redfield Lithograph Printing , 728 F.2d 1003 (8th Cir.1984).
