 JOHN P. MOORE , Circuit Judge.
This case is again before us following remand, U.S. , 108 S.Ct. 481 , 98 L.Ed.2d 480 , for reconsideration in light of Caterpillar Inc. v. Williams , U.S. , 107 S.Ct. 2425 , 96 L.Ed.2d 318 (1987).
The question presented on remand is whether the action filed by the State of Oklahoma (State) in state court to collect taxes from the Chickasaw Nation was properly removed.
We conclude that the State's complaint constituted an effort to avoid the sovereign immunity of the Chickasaw Nation because a federal question allowing removal is inherent in the pleading.
We are, thus, convinced Caterpillar is inapposite, and we adhere to our previous disposition that removal was proper, and dismissal was warranted.
1 In Caterpillar , the Supreme Court held that the defendant cannot remove a claim for breach of individual employment contracts by interjecting the collective bargaining agreement in its answer to provoke federal removal jurisdiction.
The Caterpillar plaintiffs had sued for breach of state-law contract rights which, the Court decided, were founded on individual agreements, not "substantially dependent on analysis of a collective-bargaining agreement."
Id. 107 S.Ct. at 2431 .
The defendant justified removal alleging facts not present in the plaintiffs' complaint to implicate federal substantive labor law.
However, the Court held the state breach of contract action could not be transformed into 301 LMRA litigation solely upon the basis the federal defense raised; 2 and Id. at 2429 (footnotes and citations omitted).
Because the Caterpillar complaint on its face was grounded on state law, raised no federal issues, and no other basis for federal jurisdiction was present when the suit was filed, the Court concluded removal was improper.
In our case, the State's complaint facially states a claim grounded on state law.
Indeed, nothing within the literal language of the pleading even suggests implication of a federal question.
Yet, such a question is inherent within the complaint because of the parties subject to the action.
The named defendant is the Chickasaw Nation, a sovereign entity whose status is subject to and limited by congressional power alone.
See Merrion v. Jicarilla Apache Tribe , 455 U.S. 130 , 102 S.Ct. 894 , 71 L.Ed.2d 21 (1982).
Thus, as we noted in our prior opinion, absent its consent, the Chickasaw Nation is subject to suit only under conditions prescribed by Congress.
State of Okla. ex rel.
Oklahoma Tax Comm'n v. Graham , 822 F.2d 951, 956 (10th Cir.1987).
The State attempted to "well-plead" its complaint by invoking only state revenue laws and thereby avoid the Chickasaw Nation's sovereign status.
However, the complaint is not well-pleaded and consequently falls outside the boundaries Caterpillar set.
In order to well-plead an action in state court to impose state tax liability upon certain tribal commercial affairs transacted on the territory of the Chickasaw Nation, the State must plead either the tribe's consent to suit or its valid waiver.
See Puyallup Tribe, Inc. v. Department of Game of Wash. , 433 U.S. 165 , 97 S.Ct. 2616 , 53 L.Ed.2d 667 (1977).The State alleges neither, and the absence of this essential element of subject matter jurisdiction is the essence of the federal question inherent in the State's action.
On remand, we asked the parties to address the applicability of Department of Revenue of Iowa v. Investment Finance Management Co. , 831 F.2d 790 (8th Cir.1987), cert. denied , U.S. , 108 S.Ct. 1575 , 99 L.Ed.2d 890 (1988).
In that case, the Eighth Circuit dealt with a removal predicated upon federal preemption.
The State argues Investment Finance is inapplicable because "the subject of [the instant] lawsuit does not come within the exclusive province of the Federal Government," and "the State of Oklahoma has jurisdiction over the parties and the subject matter."
These arguments miss the point of concern.
The pertinent issue from Investment Finance is whether a removed action unenforceable against an Indian tribe or its agent should be remanded or dismissed.
The Eighth Circuit held that remand is proper, but Lambert Run Coal Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R.R. Co. , 258 U.S. 377 , 42 S.Ct. 349 , 66 L.Ed. 671 (1922), upon which Investment Finance is based, portends a different result.
Based on the rules of removal jurisdiction in force at the time the complaint was filed in state court, the Eighth Circuit decided the federal court to which the action was removed acquired only the jurisdiction of the state court.
Thus, if the state court lacked jurisdiction over a case because of federal preemption, the federal court also lacked jurisdiction.
3 The predicate for this holding was established by Justice Brandeis in Lambert Run when he held "[i]f the state court lacks jurisdiction, the federal court acquires none, although it might in a like suit originally brought there have had jurisdiction."
Lambert Run , 258 U.S. at 382 , 42 S.Ct. at 351 .
Yet, contrary to the conclusion reached in Investment Finance , the Lambert Run court held the district court must dismiss the case without prejudice when it perceives the state court lacked subject matter jurisdiction.
We conclude that is the proper disposition of this matter as well.
Because we believe sovereign immunity protects the Chickasaw Nation against the State's action, we would follow the Lambert Run analysis to its final conclusion.
Accordingly, the judgment of the District Court of the Eastern District of Oklahoma dismissing this action is AFFIRMED.
