 BREYER , Chief Judge.
This appeal concerns the calculation of Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act disability benefits due a retired riveter partially disabled due to deafness.
The Act provides three different systems for compensating partially disabled workers.
The first applies to those suffering scheduled ( i.e. , particular, specifically listed) injuries.
The second applies to those suffering other (unscheduled) injuries.
The third applies to workers who retire before becoming disabled.
The Labor Department's Benefits Review Board awarded benefits to Mr. Brown, the riveter, calculated through use of both the first and third systems.
The petitioner, Brown's employer, Bath Iron Works, argues that the Board should have used the third system alone (which would have produced a smaller award).
The respondent, the Director of the Labor Department's Office of Workers' Compensation, defends the Board's result, while arguing that the Board should have used the first system alone.
We agree with the Director.
I. Background A. The Three Systems To help the reader understand the three different compensation calculation systems, we shall first describe them in a simplified way without using statutory language.
System One: Scheduled Injuries .
The Act's schedule (in 8(c)(1)-(20), 33 U.S.C. 908(c)(1) -(20)) lists a number of specific injuries, such as loss of an arm or a leg or total or partial deafness, followed by a specific number of weeks (for example, loss of an arm, 312 weeks).
The Act entitles a worker suffering one of the listed injuries to two-thirds of his average weekly wages for the listed number of weeks.
Thus, for example, a worker earning $600 per week (just over $30,000 per year), who loses an arm, would receive about $400 per week (two-thirds of his average weekly wages) for 312 weeks, totalling about $125,000, spread out over six years.
See 33 U.S.C. 908(c)(1) .
If that worker had become completely deaf, he would receive the $400 per week (two-thirds of his average weekly wages) for 200 weeks, or about $80,000, spread over about four years.
See 33 U.S.C. 908(c)(13)(B) .
The schedule provides for proportionate modification of the award for partial losses.
System Two: "Unscheduled" Injuries .
The Act sets forth a different method for compensating other injuries not specifically listed in section 8(c) 's schedule.
In such cases, 8(c)(21) , 33 U.S.C. 908(c)(21) , says that a worker will receive two-thirds of the difference between his average weekly wages and his residual (post-injury) earning capacity (as determined by the Labor Department) for as long as the disability continues.
Thus, the same $600 per week worker, who suffers, say, a slipped disk (not listed on the schedule) and who retains the capacity to earn only $150 per week, would receive benefits of $300 per week (two-thirds of the $450 difference ) for as long as the disability continues.
System Three: Injuries Suffered by Retired Workers .
In 1984, Congress amended the Act to provide a special system of compensation for workers whose job-related injuries (or diseases such as asbestosis) did not become apparent until after retirement.
See 33 U.S.C. 902(10) , 908(c)(23), 910(d)(2), 910(i).
In such cases the Act begins with the principle that a disabled worker should receive two-thirds of his average weekly wages for as long as he is disabled, but it then modifies that principle in two important ways.
First, it multiplies the average weekly wage by a percentage, namely the percentage of total disability that the worker has suffered.
It takes this percentage from American Medical Association tables.
See 33 U.S.C. 908(c)(23) .
Those tables say, for example, that a totally deaf person is 35% totally disabled.
See American Medical Association Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent Impairment 170 (3d ed. 1988).
If the deaf worker's average weekly wage is $600, the worker would receive, not two-thirds of his weekly wage ($400), but $400 multiplied by the percentage of total disability (35%), or $140 per week for the duration of his disability.
Because System Three multiplies the average weekly wage by this percentage-of-total-disability, it is often less generous than System One.
Sometimes it could turn out to be more generous, however, for it makes its smaller payments, not just for a limited number of weeks, but indefinitely as long as the worker is disabled.
Second, System Three calculates "average weekly wages" in a special way.
If the disability appears during the first year after retirement, that term simply means the wages the worker earned just before retirement.
See 33 U.S.C. 910(d)(2)(A) .
If the disability appears after the first year, however, that term means a national average weekly wages figure that the Department of Labor calculates.
See 33 U.S.C. 910(d)(2)(B) .
Depending upon what the worker actually made before retiring, this System Three definition results in awards that are sometimes less generous, but sometimes more generous, than awards under System One.
B. The Statute's Structure The key statutory language setting forth these three systems includes the following: 1.
A definitional section defines "disability" (in relevant part) as 33 U.S.C. 902(10) .
It adds a special definition of "disability" as section 910(d)(2) Id .
The definitions also make clear that "injury" includes both job-related accidental injuries and occupational diseases.
See 33 U.S.C. 902(2) .
