 COFFEY , Circuit Judge.
On June 27, 1991, Police Officer Mary Lu Redmond responded to a reported fight in progress at an apartment complex.
When she arrived at the scene, she was advised that there had been a stabbing inside the building.
Within minutes thereafter, Officer Redmond stated that she fired her weapon and killed Ricky Allen, Sr. as he was pursuing and rapidly gaining on another man, and was poised to stab him with a butcher knife.
Allen's surviving family members filed suit against Officer Redmond and her employer, the Village of Hoffman Estates, Illinois (the "Village"), alleging that Officer Redmond's use of deadly force violated Allen's rights under the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution, and that Officer Redmond caused Allen's wrongful death under the Illinois Wrongful Death Act, 740 ILCS 180/0.01-2.2 (1994).
Redmond and the Village appeal the $545,000 jury verdict.
The appellants raise two issues on appeal: first, that the district court erred in instructing the jury on the use of deadly force; and second, that the district court erred by refusing to recognize a privilege for confidential communications between Officer Redmond and the licensed clinical social worker from whom she sought counseling.
We affirm as to the first issue and reverse and remand as to the second issue dealing with the question of privilege.
I. BACKGROUND A. The Shooting On June 27, 1991, Officer Redmond, who was alone on patrol duty in that area on the day shift, responded to a dispatcher's report of a fight in progress at the Grand Canyon Estates apartment complex in the Village of Hoffman Estates, a suburb of Chicago, Illinois.
Redmond was the first police officer to arrive at the scene.
Officer Redmond testified that, as she pulled into the apartment complex parking lot, she saw two African-American women running toward her car, waving their arms above their heads, 1 one of whom stated that there had been a stabbing inside the building.
Redmond relayed this information to her dispatcher and requested assistance and an ambulance.
As Redmond approached the apartment building, five men ran out the front door yelling and screaming.
One of the men was waving a pipe above his head.
At this time, Officer Redmond testified that she ordered the man carrying the pipe to drop the pipe and also ordered everybody to the ground.
After repeating the command "Drop the pipe" several times to no avail, Officer Redmond was forced to draw her service revolver.
Almost immediately thereafter, two more men--a Caucasian man followed by an African-American man in hot pursuit--came running out of the door of the building.
Officer Redmond testified that the African-American man, later identified as Ricky Allen, Sr., was armed with a butcher knife, was chasing and gaining on the Caucasian man, and was "directly behind" and poised to stab him when she fired the fatal shot.
Officer Redmond testified that she commanded Allen to drop the butcher knife several times before firing: Officer Redmond explained the moment before the shooting as follows: Redmond testified that she "didn't even have time to square up," 2 when she fired her weapon "[b]ecause the second subject was about to kill the first subject with the knife."
She noted that only three or four seconds elapsed from the time Allen emerged from the apartment building door until the time she fired.
Four of Allen's brothers and sisters, all of whom witnessed the shooting, testified that Allen was unarmed when Officer Redmond fired her weapon.
Officer Redmond testified that after she fired the single shot at Ricky Allen, Sr., he fell to the ground and she ran toward him with her gun at her side.
She observed the butcher knife lying on the grass approximately two or three feet from his body.
She repeated her request for backup support and an ambulance on her portable radio, as "people came pouring out of the buildings."
Redmond stated that several people within the crowd "started to charge" at her, as they were "yelling," "screaming," "swearing" and "quite hysterical."
She raised her gun when one person from the crowd came within arm's length, and ordered everyone "to get back, get down, get beyond the sidewalk, get on the ground."
In her testimony, Officer Redmond made it clear that no one from the crowd attempted to come to Allen's aid, and that the knife was not moved from the place it landed when Allen fell to the ground until it was retrieved by one of the investigating officers.
Allen's siblings remembered the events just after the shooting differently.
Connie Allen, his sister, testified that she attempted to approach her brother's body when Officer Redmond, with her gun raised, ordered her to get back and also stated that Redmond ordered her sister Sharon to step back at gunpoint.
Connie Allen did not observe a knife lying on the grass near her brother's body until after the ambulance had taken the body away.
When asked at trial why she had not reported what she had seen to any of the police investigating the shooting, Connie stated that she had not felt like talking to anyone immediately after the shooting.
Officer Joe Graham arrived at the Grand Canyon Estates apartment complex shortly after the shooting.
When he arrived, he saw a large crowd of people--approximately twenty-five to thirty African-Americans and five to ten Caucasians--gathered on the grass, and a number of people "rushing out of the apartment buildings--to see what was going on."
Officer Graham observed Officer Redmond standing on the lawn, behind Allen's body, with her gun drawn and aimed at the crowd.
Officer Graham testified during his deposition that Officer Redmond appeared "somewhat bewildered" when he first arrived at the scene, and later at trial he explained that he meant she was "visibly shaken or upset or disoriented."
Officer Graham testified that the members of the crowd were "fluctuating back and forth in a very chaotic movement," yelling that Officer Redmond "had shot Mr. Allen and that she didn't have to shoot him in the head" and that "they were going to sue the white bitch for shooting Mr.
Allen."
Officer Graham testified that when he knelt down to check for Allen's pulse, he saw a butcher knife lying on the grass approximately an arm's length away from the body.
B. Officer Redmond's Counseling After the shooting, Officer Redmond sought counseling from Karen Beyer, a licensed clinical social worker 3 certified by the state of Illinois as an employee assistance counselor and employed by the Village.
Officer Redmond met with Beyer for the first time three or four days after the shooting incident and continued counseling for approximately two or three sessions per week through at least January of 1992, six months after the shooting.
4 During pre-trial discovery, the plaintiffs learned that Officer Redmond had participated in a number of counseling sessions with Beyer, the licensed clinical social worker.
At Officer Redmond's deposition, the plaintiffs inquired regarding the substance of her communications with Beyer.
Officer Redmond refused to respond to this line of questioning, contending that her communications with a licensed clinical social worker were privileged.
The plaintiffs subsequently subpoenaed Beyer to testify at a deposition and to produce her credentials as a counseling professional as well as all her "notes, records, [and] reports pertaining to Mary Lu Redmond."
The defendants, Redmond and the Village, moved to quash the subpoena, maintaining that all of Officer Redmond's communications occurring within the context of the counseling relationship, as well as Karen Beyer's notes and reports pertaining to those communications, were privileged.
The trial court denied the defendants' motion to quash, based on the judge's belief that the psychotherapist/patient privilege recognized in other circuits does not extend to a licensed clinical social worker, 5 and ordered Karen Beyer to testify as to "the disclosures made to her by Ms. Redmond of the incidents of the day that relate to [the shooting]."
We wish to point out that the Illinois statute specifically grants the psychotherapist/patient privilege to social workers.
See 740 ILCS 110/2, 110/10 (1994).
The court ordered Officer Redmond to appear for a third deposition session to answer questions concerning her communications with Karen Beyer.
Officer Redmond appeared for the third deposition session, and again the answers she gave regarding her counseling sessions with Karen Beyer were evasive and incomplete, obviously an attempt to protect her privileged communications.
When Karen Beyer appeared for her deposition, she limited her answers to only those facts concerning disclosures made by Officer Redmond about the circumstances leading up to the shooting incident on June 27, 1991.
6 Beyer also refused to produce any notes or reports from Officer Redmond's counseling sessions.
The plaintiffs filed another motion to compel Karen Beyer to answer certain questions to which objections had been made and to produce all of her notes and reports on Mary Lu Redmond.
After Karen Beyer's second deposition session, the plaintiffs filed another motion to compel further responses, and the trial judge responded with an order permitting unrestricted and unlimited inquiry into statements made by Officer Redmond to Karen Beyer during their counseling sessions.
7 At her final deposition session, and again during trial, Officer Redmond responded "I don't recall" to the majority of questions dealing with the substance of her counseling sessions with her therapist and licensed clinical social worker, Ms. Beyer.
8 Ms. Beyer likewise refused to divulge her communications other than the officer's factual description of the events leading up to the shooting.
Karen Beyer did produce three pages of redacted notes.
On April 6, 1993, the district court ordered that Officer Redmond would be barred from testifying at trial as to her version of the shooting incident "because plaintiffs' attorneys have been blocked from effective cross-examination."
Just prior to trial, on December 10, 1993, the trial judge reconsidered and vacated this ruling, but made it clear that the jury would be instructed that it could draw an adverse inference from the defendants' failure to produce Karen Beyer's notes and in fact gave such an instruction.
At trial, the district judge instructed the jury that the defendants had no legal justification to refuse to produce Karen Beyer's notes of her counseling sessions with Officer Redmond.
Over the defendants' objection, the district judge instructed the jury that it was " entitled to presume that the contents of the notes would be unfavorable to Mary Lu Redmond and the Village of Hoffman Estates ."
(Emphasis added.)
9 The trial judge also instructed the jury on the factors it could take into account in determining whether Officer Redmond's use of deadly force was proper.
The court gave the plaintiffs' proffered Jury Instruction No. 5, over the defendants' objection, and rejected the defendants' Proposed Jury Instruction No. 7.
10 The defendants' Proposed Jury Instruction No. 7 included two points omitted from the plaintiffs' Jury Instruction No. 5; first, that the jury should not consider a police officer's subjective intentions or motivations in using deadly force; and second, that the jury should make allowance for the fact that police officers frequently "have to make split second judgments under tense, uncertain, and rapidly evolving circumstances."
The jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiffs based on these jury instructions and awarded $45,000 for the federal constitutional claim and $500,000 for the state wrongful death claim.
The defendants appeal.
II.
DISCUSSION Officer Redmond and the Village urge reversal on two grounds, arguing that: (1) the district court erred in instructing the jury on the use of deadly force; and (2) the district court erred in refusing to recognize a privilege under Rule 501 of the Federal Rules of Evidence for confidential communications between Officer Redmond and Karen Beyer, the trained and experienced licensed clinical social worker from whom Redmond received counseling.
Both of these asserted errors stem from the court's instructions to the jury.
On appeal, our review of jury instructions is limited.
Doe v. Burnham , 6 F.3d 476, 479 (7th Cir.1993).
Jury instructions "must be correct statements of the law that are supported by the evidence."
United States v. Perez , 43 F.3d 1131, 1137 (7th Cir.1994).
We review jury instructions as a whole to determine "'if the instructions were sufficient to inform the jury correctly of the applicable law.'"
Patel v. Gayes , 984 F.2d 214, 218-19 (7th Cir.1993) (quoting United States v. Villarreal , 977 F.2d 1077, 1079 (7th Cir.1992), cert. denied , U.S. , 113 S.Ct. 1350 , 122 L.Ed.2d 731 (1993)).
Reversal is warranted only if a jury instruction misguided the jury to a litigant's prejudice.
Trytko v. Hubbell, Inc. , 28 F.3d 715, 725 (7th Cir.1994).
We thus undertake a two-part inquiry.
"First, we determine whether the instruction misstates or insufficiently states the law.
If so, we next determine whether the misstatement or deficiency likely confused or misled the jury causing prejudice to a litigant."
Burnham , 6 F.3d at 479 .
We defer to the district court's discretion in formulating the specific wording of the instructions, so long as the instructions as given cover all of the essential points of the applicable law.
United States v. Scott , 19 F.3d 1238, 1245 (7th Cir.), cert. denied , U.S. , 115 S.Ct. 163 , 130 L.Ed.2d 101 (1994).
A. Fourth Amendment Deadly Force Jury Instruction Officer Redmond and the Village assert that the district court erred in giving Jury Instruction No. 5, and in failing to give Defendants' Proposed Jury Instruction No. 7, both of which addressed the objective reasonableness of Officer Redmond's use of deadly force.
See supra n. 10.
The defendants note that the instruction given failed to explain that a police officer's "subjective intentions or motivations, good or evil, should not be considered in determining whether [the officer] acted in an objectively reasonable manner" or to explain that police officers "may have to make split second judgments under tense, uncertain, and rapidly evolving circumstances."
See Graham v. Connor , 490 U.S. 386, 397 , 109 S.Ct. 1865, 1872 , 104 L.Ed.2d 443 (1989).
The defendants contend that these omissions rendered the given instruction insufficient as a matter of law.
We disagree.
Excessive force claims, including deadly force claims, 11 resulting from any seizure are analyzed under the Fourth Amendment's objective reasonableness standard.
Jones v. Webb , 45 F.3d 178, 183 (7th Cir.1995); Ford v. Childers , 855 F.2d 1271, 1275 (7th Cir.1988) ( en banc ).
The objective reasonableness of a police officer's actions depends upon "the information [the officer] possessed immediately prior to and at the very moment [she] fired the fatal shot."
Sherrod v. Berry , 856 F.2d 802, 805 (7th Cir.1988) ( en banc ); see also Graham , 490 U.S. at 396 , 109 S.Ct. at 1872 ("[t]he 'reasonableness' of a particular use of force must be judged from the perspective of a reasonable officer on the scene, rather than with the 20/20 vision of hindsight").
Relevant factors include "the severity of the crime at issue, whether the suspect poses an immediate threat to the safety of the officers or others, and whether he is actively resisting arrest or attempting to evade arrest by flight."
Graham , 490 U.S. at 396 , 109 S.Ct. at 1872 .
A police officer's subjective intentions are irrelevant; "evil intentions will not make a Fourth Amendment violation out of an objectively reasonable use of force; nor will good intentions make an objectively unreasonable use of force constitutional."
Id. at 397 , 109 S.Ct. at 1872-73 .
Moreover, "[t]he calculus of reasonableness must embody allowance for the fact that police officers are often forced to make split-second judgments--in circumstances that are tense, uncertain, and rapidly evolving--about the amount of force that is necessary in a particular situation."
Id. at 396-97 , 109 S.Ct. at 1872 ; see also Sherrod , 856 F.2d at 805 (determination of propriety of police officer's use of deadly force requires analysis of "the knowledge, facts and circumstances known to the officer at the time [she] exercised [her] split-second judgment as to whether the use of deadly force was warranted").
We believe, in part considering our limited review of jury instructions, that the instruction the court gave was adequate.
It was objective.
The jury was instructed to consider all the facts and circumstances with which Mary Lu Redmond was confronted.
This was to be "judged from the perspective of a reasonable police officer who was confronted with the circumstances presented to Mary Lu Redmond at the moment the force was used."
It then emphasized whether a "reasonable officer" in her place would have believed "that the force was necessary to prevent the death, etc." We believe that the instruction was adequate and permitted both the parties to argue their theories of the case about times and other circumstances.
It could have been amplified, but we need not adopt for an instruction the language various courts use in particular cases.
12 B. Counseling Privilege Officer Redmond requests that we vacate the jury's verdict on the ground that the district court's instructions improperly stated to the jurors that they were permitted to draw an adverse inference from the defendants' failure to disclose information protected by the psychotherapist/patient privilege.
The trial court's instruction explicitly allowed the jury to infer that Officer Redmond revealed unfavorable and damaging information to her therapist during her many counseling sessions; the judge told the jury that it was "entitled to presume that the contents of the notes would be unfavorable to Mary Lu Redmond and the Village of Hoffman Estates."
Initially, we note that the existence and scope of evidentiary privileges are to be "governed by the principles of the common law as they may be interpreted by the courts of the United States in the light of reason and experience."
Fed.R.Evid.
501.
13 The Supreme Court has observed that Rule 501 "manifested an affirmative intention not to freeze the law of privilege" but that its purpose was to "'provide the courts with the flexibility to develop rules of privilege on a case-by-case basis.'"
Trammel v. United States , 445 U.S. 40, 47 , 100 S.Ct. 906, 911 , 63 L.Ed.2d 186 (1980) (citations omitted).
This is a case of first impression before the Seventh Circuit, questioning the existence of a federal privilege for confidential communications between a licensed clinical social worker and a patient.
The Second and Sixth Circuits have determined that "reason and experience" compel the recognition of the psychotherapist/patient privilege in both civil and criminal cases.
In re Doe , 964 F.2d 1325 (2d Cir.1992); In re Zuniga , 714 F.2d 632 (6th Cir.), cert. denied , 464 U.S. 983 , 104 S.Ct. 426 , 78 L.Ed.2d 361 (1983).
In contrast, the Fifth, Ninth, Tenth, and Eleventh Circuits have rejected the privilege in factual situations not even remotely similar to the one before this court, each interpreting Rule 501 as limiting the development of privileges to those recognized by the common law.
See United States v. Burtrum , 17 F.3d 1299 (10th Cir.1994) (declining to recognize a psychotherapist/patient privilege in criminal child sexual abuse case); In re Grand Jury Proceedings , 867 F.2d 562 (9th Cir.), cert. denied , 493 U.S. 906 , 110 S.Ct. 265 , 107 L.Ed.2d 214 (1989) (rejecting assertion of a psychotherapist/patient privilege by target of grand jury murder investigation); United States v. Corona , 849 F.2d 562 (11th Cir.1988), cert. denied , 489 U.S. 1084 , 109 S.Ct. 1542 , 103 L.Ed.2d 846 (1989) (refusing to recognize a psychotherapist/patient privilege in criminal firearms case); United States v. Meagher , 531 F.2d 752 (5th Cir.), cert. denied , 429 U.S. 853 , 97 S.Ct. 146 , 50 L.Ed.2d 128 (1976) (rejecting criminal defendant's assertion of psychiatrist/patient privilege in bank robbery trial).
With the exception of the Tenth Circuit's decision in Burtrum , which involved admissions by a pedophile to his therapist of criminal child sexual assault, 14 the decisions refusing to recognize the psychotherapist/patient privilege are at least five years old.
Much has changed with the mental health field in the past five years. 15 The need, and demand, for counseling services has skyrocketed during the past several years due to the rapid spread of violence and crime throughout our nation.
Countless innocent bystanders, as well as law enforcement officers themselves, witness violent crimes and homicides.
16 These unfortunate individuals, who include not only law enforcement personnel, but also students, school and hospital employees, postal workers, and members of the general public, need and deserve the help, support, and emotional release provided by confidential counseling.
The recognition of a psychotherapist/patient privilege can only serve to encourage troubled individuals, as well as those who witness, participate in, and are intimately affected by acts of violence in today's stressful, crime ridden, homicidal environment, to seek the necessary professional counseling and to assist mental health professionals to succeed in their endeavors.
We agree with the Second and Sixth Circuits that reason and experience compel the recognition of a psychotherapist/patient privilege.
Reason tells us that psychotherapists and patients share a unique relationship, in which the patient's ability to communicate freely without the fear of public disclosure is the key to successful treatment.
See In re Zuniga , 714 F.2d at 640 (" [t]he essential element of the psychotherapist-patient privilege is its assurance to the patient that his innermost thoughts may be revealed [to his therapist] without fear of disclosure " in order that the patient might receive adequate treatment) (emphasis added).
In re Zuniga , 714 F.2d at 638 (quoting Taylor v. United States , 222 F.2d 398, 401 (D.C.Cir.1955) (quoting Guttmacher and Weihofen, Psychiatry and the Law 272 (1952))).
Moreover, communications with a psychotherapist often involve highly personal matters, the disclosure of which "would frequently be embarrassing to the point of mortification for the patient."
In re Doe , 964 F.2d at 1328 .
Indeed, courts and commentators have focused on an individual's right of privacy, "a fundamental tenet of the American legal tradition," to justify the psychotherapist/patient privilege.
See, e.g. , Developments in the Law: Part IV, 98 Harv.L.Rev.
at 1544-47 ("[c]ompelled disclosure of information communicated by a patient to a psychotherapist will therefore often threaten the privacy of the patient's most intimate thoughts"); In re Lifschutz , 2 Cal.3d 415, 431-32 , 85 Cal.Rptr.
829, 839 , 467 P.2d 557, 567 (1970) (quoting Griswold v. Connecticut , 381 U.S. 479, 484 , 85 S.Ct. 1678, 1681 , 14 L.Ed.2d 510 (1965)) ("We believe that a patient's interest in keeping such confidential revelations from public purview, in retaining this substantial privacy, has deeper roots than the [state] statute and draws sustenance from our constitutional heritage [T]he United States Supreme Court declared that 'Various guarantees [of the Bill of Rights] create zones of privacy,' and we believe that the confidentiality of the psychotherapeutic session falls within one such zone").
Developments in the Law--Privileged Communication: Part II.
Modes of Analysis, 98 Harv.L.Rev.
1471 , 1481 (1985) (citations omitted).
We are cognizant of the fact that all fifty states have recognized the need for and have adopted varying forms of the psychotherapist-patient privilege .
17 See Developments in the Law: Part IV, 98 Harv.L.Rev.
at 1539 ("the psychotherapist-patient privilege has won consistent approval from courts and commentators").
Although federal common law governs our recognition of privilege in this case, see In re Pebsworth , 705 F.2d 261, 262 (7th Cir.1983), the law of privilege as developed by the states is not irrelevant as the Supreme Court "has taken note of state privilege laws in determining whether to retain them in the federal system."
United States v. Gillock , 445 U.S. 360, 369 n. 8, 100 S.Ct. 1185, 1191 n. 8, 63 L.Ed.2d 454 (1980); see also Memorial Hospital v. Shadur , 664 F.2d 1058, 1061 (7th Cir.1981) (quoting United States v. King , 73 F.R.D. 103, 105 (E.D.N.Y.1976)) (" [a] strong policy of comity between state and federal sovereignties impels federal courts to recognize state privileges where this can be accomplished at no substantial cost to federal substantive and procedural policy '") (emphasis added); William T. Thompson Co. v. General Nutrition Corp. , 671 F.2d 100, 104 (3d Cir.1982) (federal courts are not precluded from "resort[ing] to state law analogies for the development of a federal common law of privileges in instances where the federal rule is unsettled").
The widespread recognition of the psychotherapist/patient privilege in all fifty states is strong evidence that "experience with [the privilege] has been favorable ."
In re Doe , 964 F.2d at 1328 (emphasis added).
Particularly significant to the case before the court is the Illinois Mental Health and Development Disabilities Confidentiality Act , 740 ILCS 110/1-110/17 (1994), which expressly recognizes a psychotherapist/patient privilege: [I]n any civil or in any proceeding preliminary thereto, a recipient a therapist in the interest of a recipient, has the privilege to refuse to disclose and to prevent the disclosure of the recipient's record or communications Id. at 110/10 (emphasis added).
The term "therapist," as defined by the statute, includes any "psychiatrist, physician, psychologist, social worker , or nurse providing mental health or development disabilities services " Id. at 110/2 (emphasis added).
Illinois law thus explicitly extends the privilege to communications with a licensed clinical social worker, like Karen Beyer.
For these reasons, we recognize the existence of a psychotherapist/patient privilege under Rule 501 of the Federal Rules of Evidence .
18 However, we also note that the privilege we recognize in a case of this nature requires an assessment of whether, in the interests of justice, the evidentiary need for the disclosure of the contents of a patient's counseling sessions outweighs that patient's privacy interests.
In re Doe , 964 F.2d at 1328 ; see Trammel , 445 U.S. at 52 , 100 S.Ct. at 913 (the question is "whether the privilege promotes sufficiently important interests to outweigh the need for probative evidence in the administration of justice"); cf. Fed.R.Evid.
403 ("evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or misleading the jury, or by considerations of undue delay, waste of time, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence"); Developments in the Law: Part IV, 98 Harv.L.Rev.
at 1544-47 ("Because the privilege impedes the judicial truth-seeking function, courts and legislatures have generally limited the privilege to cases in which its application would be consistent with its underlying purposes of facilitating medical diagnosis and treatment").
We acknowledge that "[e]videntiary privileges in litigation are not favored."
Herbert v. Lando , 441 U.S. 153, 175 , 99 S.Ct. 1635, 1648 , 60 L.Ed.2d 115 (1979).
"Whatever their origins, these exceptions to the demand for every man's evidence are not lightly created nor expansively construed for they are in derogation of the search for the truth."
United States v. Nixon , 418 U.S. 683, 710 , 94 S.Ct. 3090, 3108 , 41 L.Ed.2d 1039 (1974).
Accordingly, we will determine the appropriate scope of the privilege "by balancing the interests protected by shielding the evidence sought with those advanced by disclosure."
In re Zuniga , 714 F.2d at 640 .
We decline to speculate as to what situations would call for the abrogation of this privilege.
Instead, we confine our analysis to a factual situation of this nature, where the balance of the competing interests tips sharply in favor of the privilege if we hope to encourage law enforcement officers who are frequently forced to experience traumatic events by the very nature of their work to seek qualified professional help.
The plaintiffs sought disclosure of the confidential communications between Officer Redmond and Karen Beyer, a licensed clinical social worker.
19 There were numerous eyewitnesses to the shooting, including Officer Redmond and several of Allen's brothers and sisters, four of whom testified at trial.
Officer Redmond testified at trial as to her recollection of the circumstances leading up to the incident.
Thus, the plaintiffs' need for Officer Redmond's personal innermost thoughts about the shooting incident were cumulative at best.
In contrast, Officer Redmond's privacy interests were, and are still, substantial.
Officer Redmond sought professional counseling after an unquestionably traumatic and tragic event she experienced in the line of duty.
Her ability, through counseling, to work out the pain and anguish undoubtedly caused by Allen's death in all probability depended to a great deal upon her trust and confidence in her counselor Karen Beyer.
Officer Redmond, and all those placed in her most unfortunate circumstances, are entitled to be protected in their desire to seek counseling after mortally wounding another human being in the line of duty.
An individual who is troubled as the result of her participation in a violent and tragic event, such as this, displays a most commendable respect for human life and is a person well-suited "to protect and to serve."
Based on the facts and circumstances presented in this record, we recognize the existence of the psychotherapist/patient privilege in this Circuit and thus the confidential communications between Mary Lu Redmond and her licensed clinical social worker Karen Beyer are protected from compelled disclosure.
III.
CONCLUSION The judgment of the district court is R EVERSED and the case is R EMANDED for a new trial consistent with this opinion.
