 OPINION OF THE COURT STAPLETON , Circuit Judge: Juan Melendez appeals his sentence.
The first issue presented concerns a district court's authority to depart downward from a statutory minimum sentence based upon the defendant's substantial assistance with a criminal investigation where the government has moved under USSG 5K1.1 for a departure below the U.S. Sentencing Guideline range but has not moved under 18 U.S.C. 3553(e) for a departure below the statutory minimum.
We hold that, under such circumstances, a district court's authority under 5K1.1 to depart below the Sentencing Guideline range does not permit it to depart below a lower minimum sentence set by statute.
The second issue concerns Melendez's motion for a downward departure pursuant to application note 17 to USSG 2D1.1 .
We agree with the district court that 2D1.1 application note 17 does not permit a district court to depart downward from a statutory minimum sentence.
The final issue concerns Melendez's contention that the district court should have permitted him to withdraw his guilty plea.
The record establishes that Melendez in fact did not attempt to withdraw his plea before the district court.
I. Melendez and codefendant Edwin Moya were approached by confidential informants of the United States Customs Service posing as importers and transporters of cocaine.
This initial contact led to several meetings, during which Melendez, Moya, and the confidential informants discussed the availability of cocaine for distribution.
The discussions culminated in a meeting during which Melendez and Moya gave the confidential informants $10,000 as a deposit toward the transportation expenses for 24 kilograms of cocaine.
The next day, the two codefendants deposited an additional $2500 for the transportation of the cocaine.
Shortly thereafter, Moya and Melendez were arrested by New York authorities on unrelated drug charges.
After their arrest, Moya's common law wife, Anna Maria Ferrara, her brother Raphael Ferrara, and her uncle Bienvenido Polanco, held further negotiations with the confidential informants for a 225-kilogram cocaine purchase.
Government agents ultimately made a controlled delivery of 30 kilograms of cocaine to Raphael Ferrara and Polanco.
Raphael Ferrara and Polanco were arrested shortly after taking possession of the drugs and Anna Maria Ferrara was arrested on the following day.
Melendez was charged with conspiring, in violation of 21 U.S.C. 846 , to distribute and to possess with intent to distribute more than five kilograms of cocaine, a crime that carries a statutory minimum sentence of 10 years' imprisonment.
21 U.S.C. 841(b)(1)(A) .
He originally pleaded not guilty.
Plea negotiations ensued, however, and Melendez ultimately signed a cooperating plea agreement.
The agreement provided, in pertinent part, that in return for Melendez's cooperation with the government's investigation and his pleading guilty, the government would move for a downward departure from the applicable Guideline range pursuant to USSG 5K1.1 .
The agreement did not require the government to file a 3553(e) motion to depart below the statutory minimum, however.
Melendez retracted his plea of not guilty and pleaded guilty to the charged conspiracy.
The probation officer determined that the Guideline sentencing range applicable to Melendez's crime was 135 to 168 months.
The government, in accordance with the agreement, moved for a downward departure from that Guideline range, pursuant to 5K1.1 , in recognition of Melendez's substantial assistance in the investigation or prosecution of another person.
The district judge granted that motion, and departed downward from the sentencing range set by the Guidelines.
However, because the government had not also moved pursuant to 3553(e) , the judge ruled that he had no authority to depart below the statutory minimum and meted out the 10-year minimum sentence required by statute.
Melendez maintains that this was error.
He argues that a 5K1.1 motion not only triggers the court's authority to depart downward from the sentencing level set by the Guidelines but also triggers the court's authority to depart below a lower, statutory minimum.
II.
The government maintains that Melendez waived or forfeited his right to appeal this issue, claiming that Melendez never formally argued to the district court that the government's 5K1.1 departure motion empowered the court to depart below the 10-year statutory minimum.
To preserve the right to appeal a district court ruling, "it is sufficient that a party, at the time the ruling is made or sought, makes known to the court the action which that party desires the court to take and the grounds therefor."
Fed.R.Crim.P.
51 .
Moreover, "[t]he general rule requiring counsel to make clear to the trial court what action they wish taken should not be applied in a ritualistic fashion.
If the problem has been brought to the attention of the court, and the court has indicated in no uncertain terms what its views are, to require an objection would exalt form over substance."
3A Charles A. Wright, Federal Practice & Procedure 842 , 289-90 (1982 & Supp.1994); see also Government of Virgin Islands v. Joseph , 964 F.2d 1380, 1384-85 (3d Cir.1992) (rejecting the government's contention that an issue was not preserved for appeal because the court had been made aware of the issue and because a contemporaneous objection would not have further aided the district court); cf. United States v. 57.09 Acres of Land , 757 F.2d 1025, 1027 (9th Cir.1985) (noting that the government did not waive its right to object to jury instructions because the court had been made "aware of the government's objection"); Bass v. Department of Agriculture , 737 F.2d 1408, 1413 (5th Cir.1984) (noting the established rule in civil cases "that formal objection is not necessary if the trial judge was fairly apprised of the nature of the objection").
Our review of the record reveals that Melendez in fact "[made] known to the court the action which [he] desire[d] the court to take."
As the Assistant United States Attorney admitted during the sentencing hearing: "Both defendants through counsel have argued that the Court depart downward from this mandatory minimum."
(App. at 24a.)
Moreover, the district court was made well aware of the underlying legal debate over whether a 5K1.1 motion permits a district court to depart below a statutory minimum.
The government admitted during the sentencing hearing that "[s]ome arguments indicate that the law doesn't require the Court to impose the mandatory minimum."
(App. at 24a.)
Most importantly, the district court clearly understood that Melendez was asserting these arguments; it expressly addressed and resolved the issue of the court's authority to depart below the statutory minimum.
In this context, there was no need for Melendez to take the additional step of repackaging the government's statement as his own formal objection to preserve his right to appeal.
Any such requirement would elevate form over substance.
Thus, we conclude that this issue is properly preserved for appeal and we will proceed to the merits of Melendez's argument.
III.
Congress has decreed that a person who distributes, or conspires to distribute, five kilograms or more of cocaine "shall be sentenced to a term of imprisonment which may not be less than 10 years."
21 U.S.C. 841(b)(1)(A) .
This statute represents a Congressional judgment about the seriousness of this offense and the degree of sanction necessary to punish and deter this kind of conduct.
At the same time, Congress has recognized that the value to society of the cooperation of an individual charged with this kind of offense can, under some circumstances, outweigh the benefit to be derived from imposing the statutory minimum sentence.
Accordingly, Congress has authorized sentences below this and other statutory minima.
Section 3553(e) of Title 18 provides: Limited authority to impose a sentence below a statutory minimum section 994 Notably, Congress has authorized sentences below a statutory minimum only upon the prosecution's motion; that is, before a court may depart below a statutory minimum, the prosecutor first must determine that the value of the cooperation is sufficiently great to warrant overriding Congress's judgment concerning the minimum appropriate sentence.
By requiring a government motion, Congress thus gave the prosecutor the sole key that affords access to a sentence below a statutory minimum.
Wade v. United States , 504 U.S. 181, 184 , 112 S.Ct. 1840, 1843 , 118 L.Ed.2d 524 (1992).
That the prosecutor holds the sole key to the area below the statutory minimum does not mean that the sentencing court, once the prosecutor has made a 3553(e) motion, has unbridled discretion to set a defendant's sentence, however.
As the final sentence of 3553(e) reflects, Congress contemplated that the limited downward departure authority there bestowed on a sentencing court would be exercised in the context of, and in a manner consistent with, a system of Guidelines sentencing that was being constructed at the time of the passage of 3553(e) .
Consistent with this approach, 994(n) of Title 28 of the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 directs the Sentencing Commission to formulate Guidelines that will reflect the general appropriateness of rewarding cooperation with sentences lower than they would otherwise be, including sentences below a statutory minimum.
Section 994(n) of Title 28 provides in pertinent part: Although 994(n) directs recognition of the principle that a lower sentence for cooperation can be appropriate, it says nothing about a process for identifying particular cases in which such a sentence may be appropriate.
Accordingly, nothing in the text of 994(n) suggests that Congress intended by the passage of 994(n) to take back the access key given to the prosecutor in 3553(e) .
The same can be said for the legislative history of 994(n) .
The most one can argue, from Melendez's perspective, is that 994(n) may authorize the Commission to take back that key.
The text of 994(n) does not seem to us to require that reading, however, and the legislative history provides no evidence of such an intent on the part of Congress.
Under 994(n) , the principle that a lower sentence for cooperation may be appropriate applies as well to sentences established by the Guidelines.
Here also 994(n) says nothing about how particular cases appropriate for such sentences will be identified.
Thus, nothing in 994(n) requires the Commission to give the prosecutor an exclusive access key to sentences below the Guideline range in return for cooperation.
The Commission exercised the authority given to it in this area by promulgating USSG 5K1.1 .
That Guideline and its first application note provide in relevant part: 5K1.1 Substantial Assistance to Authorities (Policy Statement) Application Notes: 18 U.S.C. 3553(e) 28 U.S.C. 994(n) There are two things about this action of the Commission that seem to us important in the current context.
The first is that the sole authority granted in 5K1.1 is for departures "from the guidelines."
Given the express reference in the application note to statutes authorizing departures "below a statutorily required minimum sentence," we believe this limitation must represent an advertent decision on the part of the Commission to provide authority in the Guidelines only for departures below the Guideline range, leaving departures below statutory minima to the authority conferred by 3553(e) .
1 Second, 5K1.1 reflects a policy decision on the part of the Commission to give the prosecutor a veto power over departures below the Guideline range based on cooperation.
The Commission thus recognized the value of letting the prosecutor's discretion control access to the area between the applicable Guideline range and any applicable, lower statutory minimum, just as 3553(e) allows that discretion to control access to the area below a statutory minimum.
With this background, we turn to Melendez's argument.
He must first ask us to conclude that Congress in 944(n) authorized the Commission to take back the access key granted to the prosecutor in 3553(e) .
While we question this proposition, we may accept it arguendo here.
Melendez next insists that the Commission, while recognizing the value of allowing the prosecutor to control access to departures for cooperation below the Guideline range, created a system under which he or she can grant access to the area between the Guideline range and a lower statutory minimum only by surrendering his or her control to the area below the statutory minimum.
Melendez tenders no persuasive reason, however, why the Commission might have chosen to create such a seemingly incongruent system.
The root issue for decision here is whether the prosecutor in a given case will be able to grant access to a Guideline departure for cooperation and at the same time retain control of access to a departure from a lower, statutory minimum.
A literal reading of 5K1.1 would indicate that a prosecutor has this option.
This conclusion is consistent as well with the Congressional judgment reflected in 3553(e) .
Moreover, no policy considerations appear to counsel against this conclusion and a number counsel in favor.
Indeed, beyond this case, a denial of this option for the prosecution would appear to be in no one's best interest.
As Judge Easterbrook observed in his dissent in United States v. Wills , 35 F.3d 1192, 1198 (7th Cir.1994): Section 3553(e) 3553(e) 5K1.1 5K1.1 We hold that a motion under USSG 5K1.1 unaccompanied by a motion under 18 U.S.C. 3553(e) does not authorize a sentencing court to impose a sentence lower than a statutory minimum.
2 IV.
Melendez next argues that the government's confidential informants offered to sell him cocaine at prices substantially below market price, thereby leading him to purchase a significantly greater quantity of cocaine than he ordinarily would have been able to purchase given his available funds.
He maintains further that the $12,500 he had available for the drug deal would have enabled him to purchase, on the open market, only between one-half and three-quarters of a kilogram of cocaine instead of the more than 50 kilograms attributed to him by the district court.
These facts, he contends, mandate a downward departure under application note 17 to USSG 2D1.1 .
3 Melendez is not in a position to make these arguments, however.
In his plea agreement, he specifically stipulated that his applicable Guideline range was 50 kilograms to 150 kilograms of cocaine.
Moreover, the probation report determined the applicable quantity of cocaine to be 75 kilograms and neither Melendez's objections to the presentence report nor his sentencing letter to the district court requested that less than five kilograms should be attributed to him.
We accordingly conclude that the district court properly attributed more than five kilograms of cocaine to Melendez.
Having determined that the district court properly attributed in excess of five kilograms of cocaine to Melendez, the district court then was constrained to impose the statutory minimum sentence of 10 years' imprisonment.
See, e.g. , United States v. DeMaio , 28 F.3d 588, 591 (7th Cir.1994) (holding that a sentencing court may not depart below a statutory minimum on any ground other than substantial assistance to criminal investigation); United States v. Rudolph , 970 F.2d 467, 470 (8th Cir.1992) (holding that defendant's diminished capacity, while grounds for departure from the Guidelines sentencing range, is not grounds for departure below the minimum sentence set by Congress), cert. denied , U.S. , 113 S.Ct. 1023 , 122 L.Ed.2d 169 (1993); United States v. Valente , 961 F.2d 133, 135 (9th Cir.1992) (holding that defendant's aberrant behavior will not justify a departure below a statutory minimum).
V. Finally, Melendez argues that the district court should have given him an opportunity to withdraw his guilty plea once he learned that the government did not intend to recommend a sentence below the 10-year statutory minimum.
This issue also was not properly preserved for appeal.
Although Melendez, in a brief filed pro se , maintains that he expressed his desire to withdraw his plea both in conversations with his attorney and in a letter to the court, nothing in the docket sheet or the record before this court supports those claims.
Moreover, Melendez failed to express his alleged desire to withdraw his plea when he addressed the court at his sentencing.
Because Melendez failed to raise this issue before the district court, we cannot address it here.
See, e.g. , United States v. Johnson , 359 F.2d 845, 846 (3d Cir.1966) (noting that questions cannot be presented on appeal that have not first been determined by the district court).
VI.
We will affirm the judgment of the district court.
