 PER CURIAM: In our prior opinion, we affirmed the judgment below, which approved class action settlements of asbestos-related claims involving Fibreboard Corporation.
In re Asbestos Litigation , 90 F.3d 963 (5th Cir.1996), vacated , U.S. , 117 S.Ct. 2503 , 138 L.Ed.2d 1008 (1997).
The Supreme Court vacated our judgment and remanded the case for reconsideration in light of Amchem Products, Inc. v. Windsor , U.S. , 117 S.Ct. 2231 , 138 L.Ed.2d 689 (1997).
After oral argument and reconsideration, we can find nothing in the Amchem opinion that changes our prior decision.
We again affirm.
There are two controlling differences between this case and Amchem .
First, this class action proceeded under Rule 23(b)(1) ; Amchem was a Rule 23(b)(3) case. Second, there was no allocation or difference in award, according to nature or severity of injury, in the present case as there was in Amchem ; in the case here all members of the future claimant class are treated alike.
Individual damage awards will subsequently be decided according to individual damages.
The district court made extensive findings and found, specifically, that separate actions by members of the class would create a risk of adjudications with respect to individual members of the class which would as a practical matter be dispositive of the interests of the other members not parties to the adjudications or substantially impair or impede their ability to protect their interests.
The language of the district court matches the language of Rule 23(b)(1)(B) .
No one has contested that finding of the district court, probably because it is incontestable.
The Supreme Court stated in Amchem that a settlement class action, like all federal class actions, cannot proceed unless the requirements of Rule 23(a) are met, irrespective of whether the proposed settlement is deemed fair under Rule 23(e) .
We detailed in our prior opinion our agreement with the thorough study and conclusions by the district court, satisfying the requirements of class certification under Rule 23(a) .
All members of the class, and all class representatives, share the common interests: suffering harm from asbestos exposure and seeking equitable distribution of compensation from limited funds.
None of the uncommon questions, abounding in Amchem , exist in the present case. The only conflict between members of the future claimant class could be competition for larger and earlier shares of available money, but that is precisely the reason for Rule 23(b)(1)(B) and the problem it is designed to solve where the money is limited.
That conflict or competition is controlled for the benefit of all members of the class.
It follows that the lawyer representing the class serves only common interests of the class.
The judgment of the district court is AFFIRMED.
