 OPINION WILKINS , Circuit Judge: This litigation involves constitutional, statutory, and common-law challenges to a policy instituted by the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) in consultation with the Solicitor of the Ninth Judicial Circuit of South Carolina; the City of Charleston, South Carolina Police Department (CCPD); and various social services agencies.
The policy was intended to encourage pregnant women whose urine tested positive for cocaine use to obtain substance abuse counseling.
Appellants, ten women who were tested pursuant to the policy, brought this action claiming, inter alia , that the testing of their urine for evidence of cocaine use constituted a warrantless search in violation of the Fourth Amendment; that the policy had a racially disparate impact in violation of regulations implementing Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C.A. 2000d to 2000d-6 (West 1994 & Supp.1998); that the disclosure of medical information to law enforcement personnel violated their constitutional right to privacy; and that MUSC personnel committed the state-law tort of abuse of process in administering the policy.
The district court entered judgment for Appellees 1 on each of these claims at various stages of the litigation.
For the reasons set forth below, we affirm.
I. In the fall of 1989, MUSC instituted a policy providing for the testing of the urine of pregnant women suspected of cocaine use and for the reporting, under certain circumstances, of test results to law enforcement officials.
The impetus behind the policy came from Nurse Shirley Brown, a case manager in the obstetrics department at MUSC.
Brown was concerned about a perceived rise in cocaine use among pregnant women and the consequences for the health of the users' children.
Brown spoke with the General Counsel for MUSC who in turn contacted the Ninth Circuit Solicitor (chief prosecuting attorney) concerning the development of a policy to address the problem.
Eventually, a task force was formed that included Nurse Brown, the Solicitor, the Chief of CCPD, and doctors from various departments involved in perinatal care at MUSC.
During the course of task force meetings, the Solicitor informed the participants that because a viable fetus was a "person" under South Carolina law, a woman who ingested cocaine after the 24th week of pregnancy was guilty of the crime of distributing a controlled substance to a person under the age of eighteen, see S.C.
Code Ann. 44-53-440 (Law.Coop.Supp.1997).
2 Pursuant to the policy formulated by the task force and implemented in late October or early November 1989, urine drug screens to detect evidence of cocaine use were given to all MUSC maternity patients when certain indicia of cocaine use were present: (1) separation of the placenta from the uterine wall; (2) intrauterine fetal death; (3) no prenatal care; (4) late prenatal care (beginning after 24 weeks); (5) incomplete prenatal care (fewer than five visits); (6) preterm labor without an obvious cause; (7) a history of cocaine use; (8) unexplained birth defects; or (9) intrauterine growth retardation without an obvious cause.
When a patient tested positive, the test result was reported to CCPD or a representative of the Solicitor's Office and the patient was arrested for distributing cocaine to a minor.
In early 1990, the policy was amended so that a patient who tested positive for cocaine use was given a choice between being arrested and receiving drug treatment.
Positive test results of a patient who elected drug treatment were not forwarded to CCPD, and the patient was not arrested, unless she tested positive for cocaine use a second time or failed to comply with treatment obligations.
A patient who was arrested could avoid prosecution by completing a drug treatment program.
Upon successful completion of such a program, the charges would be dismissed.
3 Implementation of the policy by MUSC involved substantial record keeping and educational efforts.
A maternity patient whose urine tested positive for cocaine use was shown an educational video concerning the harmful effects of cocaine use during pregnancy and was given letters from the Solicitor's Office and the hospital staff relating to the policy.
In addition, MUSC personnel advised the patient of the need to obtain substance abuse counseling and scheduled an initial appointment for such counseling.
The patient then was given a document noting the date and time of the appointment.
Additionally, MUSC maintained records on patients whose urine tested positive for cocaine use as a means of tracking them to ensure that they complied with the requirements of the policy.
Appellants, all of whom were subjected to the policy, 4 brought this action asserting, as pertinent here, infringement of their constitutional right to privacy; violation of their Fourth Amendment right to be free of unreasonable searches and seizures; disparate impact discrimination on the basis of race; and commission of the state-law tort of abuse of process.
After presentation of the evidence, the district court granted judgment as a matter of law to Appellees on the claims of commission of abuse of process and violation of the right to privacy to the extent Appellants sought damages.
The jury returned a verdict in favor of Appellees on the Fourth Amendment claim.
At a post-trial hearing, the court denied injunctive relief on Appellants' claims of the denial of their constitutional right to privacy.
Finally, the district court rendered findings of fact based on the evidence presented at trial and ruled in favor of Appellees on the Title VI claim of disparate impact discrimination.
On appeal, Appellants challenge the submission of the Fourth Amendment claim to the jury and the sufficiency of the evidence supporting the verdict; the decision of the district court granting judgment to Appellees on the Title VI claim; and the orders of the court granting Appellees judgment as a matter of law on the claims for violation of the constitutional right to privacy and commission of the tort of abuse of process.
We review these issues seriatim.
II.
At trial, Appellants contended that the urine drug screens constituted searches within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment.
They further claimed that because they did not consent to the screens, the tests violated the Fourth Amendment.
5 The district court ruled that the urine screens fell within the ambit of the Fourth Amendment and submitted the question of whether Appellants had consented to the searches to the jury, which found in favor of Appellees.
Appellants now maintain that the district court erred in submitting the issue of consent to the jury and, alternatively, that the verdict is not supported by the evidence.
We find it unnecessary to address these contentions because we affirm on the basis that the searches were reasonable as special needs searches.
The Fourth Amendment, made applicable to the states through the Fourteenth Amendment, provides in pertinent part that "[t]he right of the people to be secure in their persons against unreasonable searches and seizures[ ] shall not be violated."
U.S. Const.
amend.
IV; see Mapp v. Ohio , 367 U.S. 643, 655 , 81 S.Ct. 1684 , 6 L.Ed.2d 1081 (1961).
Simply put, this amendment guarantees that governmental intrusions into privacy by means of searches or seizures must be reasonable.
Typically, this reasonableness requirement acts as a constraint on governmental authority to undertake a search or seizure in the absence of individualized suspicion.
See Chandler v. Miller , 520 U.S. 305, 308 , 117 S.Ct. 1295 , 137 L.Ed.2d 513 (1997).
Generally, a search performed without a warrant is unreasonable per se unless it fits within a narrowly defined exception to the warrant requirement.
See, e.g. , Schneckloth v. Bustamonte , 412 U.S. 218, 219 , 93 S.Ct. 2041 , 36 L.Ed.2d 854 (1973); United States v. Lattimore , 87 F.3d 647, 650 (4th Cir.1996) (en banc).
Nevertheless, "neither a warrant nor probable cause, nor, indeed, any measure of individualized suspicion, is an indispensable component of reasonableness in every circumstance."
National Treasury Employees Union v. Von Raab , 489 U.S. 656, 665 , 109 S.Ct. 1384 , 103 L.Ed.2d 685 (1989).
Rather, there are situations in which "a Fourth Amendment intrusion serves special governmental needs, beyond the normal need for law enforcement."
Id. In such cases, "it is necessary to balance the individual's privacy expectations against the Government's interests to determine whether it is impractical to require a warrant or some level of individualized suspicion in the particular context."
Id. at 665-66 , 109 S.Ct. 1384 ; see Chandler , 520 U.S. at 314 , 117 S.Ct. 1295 (explaining that "[w]hen 'special needs'--concerns other than crime detection--are alleged in justification of a Fourth Amendment intrusion, courts must undertake a context-specific inquiry, examining closely the competing private and public interests advanced by the parties").
This balancing requires consideration of the governmental interest prompting the invasion; the effectiveness of the intrusion, i.e. , the degree to which the intrusion reasonably is thought to advance the governmental interest; and the magnitude of the intrusion upon the individuals affected, from both a subjective and objective stand point.
See Michigan Dep't of State Police v. Sitz , 496 U.S. 444, 455 , 110 S.Ct. 2481 , 110 L.Ed.2d 412 (1990); id. at 451-55 , 110 S.Ct. 2481 (applying test); DesRoches v. Caprio , 156 F.3d 571, 574 (4th Cir.1998).
The parties evidently have agreed throughout this litigation that MUSC is a state hospital and that MUSC employees therefore are government actors.
6 And, the district court found as a fact that MUSC personnel conducted the urine drug screens for medical purposes wholly independent of an intent to aid law enforcement efforts.
7 Accordingly, the question presented is whether a balancing of MUSC's interest in protecting the health of children whose mothers use cocaine during pregnancy, the effectiveness of the policy to identify and treat women who use cocaine during pregnancy, and the degree of intrusion experienced by women whose urine was tested for evidence of cocaine use results in a conclusion that the searches violated the Fourth Amendment.
A. The first factor to be considered is the governmental need.
The Fourth Amendment does not require a governmental need that is compelling in an absolute sense.
See Vernonia Sch. Dist. 47J v. Acton , 515 U.S. 646, 661 , 115 S.Ct. 2386 , 132 L.Ed.2d 564 (1995).
Instead, the interest must be " important enough to justify the particular search at hand, in light of other factors that show the search to be relatively intrusive upon a genuine expectation of privacy."
Id. ; see Chandler , 520 U.S. at 318 , 117 S.Ct. 1295 .
The hazard giving rise to the alleged special need must be a concrete danger, not merely a hypothetical one.
See Chandler , 520 U.S. at 318-19 , 117 S.Ct. 1295 ; Vernonia , 515 U.S. at 662-63 , 115 S.Ct. 2386 (explaining that a sharp rise in drug use by student athletes supported school officials' assertion that random drug testing without individualized suspicion was warranted).
The policy at issue here was developed after medical personnel at MUSC noticed an alarming increase in the number of pregnancies affected by cocaine use.
Maternal cocaine use is associated with a number of pregnancy complications, including low birth weight, premature labor, birth defects, and neurobehavioral problems.
Even a single use of cocaine during pregnancy may result in separation of the placenta from the uterine wall--a condition that may threaten the life of the mother and the fetus--or a stroke in the fetus.
Moreover, costs related to caring for infants exposed to cocaine in utero are substantial, as evidenced by the testimony of an expert for Appellants who testified that he had estimated in the late 1980s that such expenses nationwide might exceed three billion dollars annually over the next ten years.
In light of the documented health hazards of maternal cocaine use and the resulting drain on public resources, MUSC officials unquestionably possessed a substantial interest in taking steps to reduce cocaine use by pregnant women.
Cf. Vernonia , 515 U.S. at 661-62 , 115 S.Ct. 2386 (concluding that interest in deterring drug use by school children was important in light of severe effects of drug use on adolescents).
B. The second factor, the effectiveness of the search, focuses on "the degree to which [it] advances the public interest."
Sitz , 496 U.S. at 453 , 110 S.Ct. 2481 (internal quotation marks omitted).
In analyzing this factor, however, our review must leave "the decision as to which among reasonable alternative techniques should be employed to deal with a serious public danger" to "the governmental officials who have a unique understanding of, and a responsibility for, limited public resources."
Id. at 453-54 , 110 S.Ct. 2481 .
Here, there can be little doubt that testing the urine of maternity patients when certain indicia of possible cocaine use were present was an effective way to identify and treat maternal cocaine use while conserving the limited resources of a public hospital.
Indeed, prenatal testing was the only effective means available to accomplish the primary policy goal of persuading women to stop using cocaine during their pregnancies in order to reduce health effects on children exposed to cocaine in utero.
Appellants argue, however, that the policy was ineffective because it was both underinclusive and overinclusive.
The policy was uriderinclusive, Appellants claim, because it did not address use of other drugs--such as alcohol and nicotine--that may pose risks to a developing fetus.
And, Appellants maintain that the policy was overinclusive because women were tested on the basis of having received inadequate prenatal care, a factor that Appellants contend is more accurately associated with poverty than with cocaine use.
Neither of these assertions, even if true, has any bearing on the effectiveness of the means adopted to achieve the goal of identifying and treating maternal cocaine use among MUSC patients.
The first fails because it addresses only the wisdom of the policy itself.
And, the second fails because the fact that the criteria for testing under the policy did not necessarily correlate with cocaine use in all patients did not render those criteria ineffective.
Accordingly, we conclude that the method chosen by MUSC officials was an effective one.
8 C. Finally, the degree of intrusion, both objective and subjective, suffered by Appellants was minimal.
The objective intrusion suffered by an individual is "measured by the duration of the seizure and the intensity of the investigation."
Id. at 452 , 110 S.Ct. 2481 .
The subjective level of intrusion is measured by the extent to which the method chosen minimizes or enhances fear and surprise on the part of those searched or detained.
See id. Generally, the privacy interests implicated by the collection and testing of urine are not minimal.
See Skinner v. Railway Labor Executives' Ass'n , 489 U.S. 602, 626 , 109 S.Ct. 1402 , 103 L.Ed.2d 639 (1989).
The context in which the searches at issue here occurred, however, indicates that they were only minimally intrusive.
In the first place, the collection and testing of urine was conducted in the course of medical treatment to which Appellants had consented.
The giving of a urine sample is a normal, routine, and expected part of a medical examination.
See Yin v. California , 95 F.3d 864, 870 (9th Cir.1996) (observing that "[i]n today's world, a medical examination that does not include either a blood test or urinalysis would be unusual").
Therefore, on an objective level, the duration and intensity of the search indicate that the Fourth Amendment intrusion was minimal at best.
Cf. Dimeo v. Griffin , 943 F.2d 679, 682 (7th Cir.1991) (en banc) (indicating that a urine drug screen conducted in the course of a medical examination presents reduced privacy concerns).
With respect to the subjective level of intrusion, we note that urine drug screens were conducted whenever one of the criteria for testing was met; a treating physician had no discretion to decline to order a urine test under the policy.
See Turner v. Dammon , 848 F.2d 440, 446-47 (4th Cir.1988) (explaining that "[t]he cases upholding warrantless administrative searches clearly establish that these rules require certainty, regularity, and neutrality in the conduct of the searches").
This fact, combined with the routine nature of urine testing in medical examinations, indicates that the searches were minimally intrusive on a subjective level.
D. In sum, the rising use of cocaine by pregnant women among MUSC's patient base and the public health problems associated with maternal cocaine use created a special need beyond normal law enforcement goals; the method chosen to address that need--testing the urine of pregnant women when indicia of possible cocaine use were present--effectively advanced the public interest; and the intrusion suffered by Appellants was minimal.
Therefore, a balancing of these factors clearly demonstrates that the searches conducted were reasonable and thus not violative of the Fourth Amendment.
III.
Title VI provides in pertinent part that "[n]o person in the United States shall, on the ground of race, be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance."
42 U.S.C.A. 2000d .
Pursuant to Title VI, Appellants 9 challenged MUSC's policy of testing for and reporting cocaine use by pregnant women, maintaining that it disparately impacted African-American women.
10 In order to succeed on a Title VI disparate impact claim, a plaintiff first must establish a prima facie case of discrimination by showing "that a facially neutral practice has a disproportionate adverse effect on a group protected by Title VI."
Elston v. Talladega County Bd. of Educ. , 997 F.2d 1394, 1407 (11th Cir.1993).
The burden then "shifts to the defendant to demonstrate the existence of a substantial legitimate justification for the allegedly discriminatory practice."
New York Urban League, Inc. v. New York , 71 F.3d 1031, 1036 (2d Cir.1995) (per curiam) (internal quotation marks omitted).
If the defendant succeeds in doing so, the plaintiff nevertheless will prevail by showing "that other less discriminatory means would serve the same objective."
Id. Here, Appellants maintained that the policy disproportionately affected African-Americans in several ways.
Specifically, Appellants argued that African-Americans were disproportionately affected by application of the policy (1) only at MUSC; (2) only to certain departments at MUSC; and (3) only to cocaine.
Appellants further asserted that the application of the factors utilized to determine which patients would be tested for cocaine use disproportionately affected African-Americans.
The district court concluded that Appellants had failed to establish a prima facie case of discrimination with respect to any of the challenged practices.
Additionally, the district court determined that even if a prima facie case of discrimination had been established, MUSC 11 had offered a legitimate justification for the policy--that it identified pregnant women who abused cocaine so that they could be referred for treatment.
Further, the court held that Appellants had failed to carry their burden of establishing the existence of an equally effective practice that would have a less disparate impact because the alternative practices offered by Appellants would have been prohibitively expensive.
Appellants now contend that the district court erred in concluding that they failed to establish a prima facie case of discrimination and to provide a viable, less discriminatory alternative.
With respect to the establishment of a prima facie case, Appellants assert that the policy resulted in a disproportionate impact on African-Americans in two respects.
First, Appellants point to the fact that the policy was implemented only at MUSC and maintain that failure to apply the policy at all area hospitals resulted in a disproportionate effect on African-Americans.
However, we need not consider whether the failure to apply the policy to all area hospitals would suffice to establish a prima facie case of discrimination.
Because there is no evidence in the record to support a conclusion that MUSC could have forced other hospitals to adopt the policy, requiring MUSC to implement the policy at other area hospitals could not constitute a viable, less discriminatory alternative.
Appellants consequently cannot prevail on this claim.
Second, Appellants maintain that MUSC's decision to target cocaine rather than all substances that are potentially harmful to fetuses--including nicotine and alcohol--disproportionately affected African-American women.
In support of this contention, Appellants note that only 68 percent of maternity patients who tested positive for any drug were African-American, while 90 percent of maternity patients who tested positive for cocaine were African-American.
12 We agree that this disparity--5.44 standard deviations--is sufficient to establish a prima facie case of disparate impact discrimination.
See Hazelwood Sch. Dist. v. United States , 433 U.S. 299, 311 n. 17, 97 S.Ct. 2736 , 53 L.Ed.2d 768 (1977) (observing that a variance "of more than two or three standard deviations" permits an inference of discrimination); Lewis v. Bloomsburg Mills, Inc. , 773 F.2d 561, 568-69 & n. 13 (4th Cir.1985) (noting that variance of five to eight standard deviations permits an inference of discrimination).
13 MUSC justified its decision to target cocaine on the basis of a perceived rise in the number of pregnant women abusing cocaine and the resistance of these women to obtaining treatment for their addictions.
Appellants do not dispute that these are legitimate, nondiscriminatory reasons for MUSC's actions, but rather assert that at least two alternative practices exist which, if adopted, would have lessened the discriminatory impact of the policy: (1) reporting use of all illegal drugs and alcohol, and (2), testing all maternity patients.
14 The district court found that both of these practices would have been prohibitively expensive.
See Wards Cove Packing Co. v. Atonio , 490 U.S. 642, 661 , 109 S.Ct. 2115 , 104 L.Ed.2d 733 (1989) (explaining that determination whether alternative measures exist that would serve the same purpose as a challenged practice with a less disparate impact should take into account whether the proposed alternatives impose undue costs or other burdens).
With respect to the first alternative, Appellants point out that the urine drug screens conducted by MUSC indicated the past use of any drug, not just cocaine.
Appellants do not challenge, however, the factual finding of the district court that application of the policy--including its tracking and reporting requirements--to all drugs would have been prohibitively expensive.
Further, they do not assert that the district court committed clear error in finding that testing the urine of all maternity patients at MUSC would have been prohibitively expensive.
Accordingly, we cannot conclude that Appellants have demonstrated the existence of a means of accomplishing the goals of the policy that would have been equally effective while imposing a less disparate impact on African-Americans.
We therefore conclude that the district court correctly granted judgment to Appellees on the Title VI claim.
IV.
Next, Appellants maintain that the district court erred in rejecting their claim that the disclosure of information contained in their medical records to a representative of the Solicitor's Office and officers of the CCPD violated their constitutional right to privacy.
15 We conclude that any privacy interest Appellants possessed in their medical records was outweighed by a compelling governmental interest, particularly in light of the nonpublic nature of the disclosure.
The Constitution does not include a general right to privacy.
See Condon v. Reno , 155 F.3d 453, 464 (4th Cir.1998).
Nevertheless, the Supreme Court has recognized that individuals possess a constitutional "interest in avoiding disclosure of personal matters."
Whalen v. Roe , 429 U.S. 589, 599 , 97 S.Ct. 869 , 51 L.Ed.2d 64 (1977).
This interest, however, is limited to disclosures of information that touch on rights that "are fundamental or implicit in the concept of ordered liberty."
Paul v. Davis , 424 U.S. 693, 713 , 96 S.Ct. 1155 , 47 L.Ed.2d 405 (1976) (internal quotation marks omitted); see Bloch v. Ribar , 156 F.3d 673, 684 (6th Cir.1998); United States v. McFillin , 713 F.2d 57, 60 (4th Cir.1981) (holding that a constitutional right to privacy is implicated when the information disclosed "affects an essential component of a person's dignity"); cf. Condon , 155 F.3d at 464 (noting that the Supreme Court has recognized a constitutional right to privacy only with respect to certain limited areas, such as "matters of reproduction, contraception, abortion, and marriage" (citations omitted)).
Moreover, even in those instances in which a constitutional right of privacy attaches to personal information, disclosure of that information will not violate the Constitution if "the government's interest in disseminating the information" outweighs "the individual's interest in keeping the information private."
Bloch , 156 F.3d at 684 .
Although the Supreme Court addressed a claim to a right of privacy in medical records in Whalen , it declined to decide whether such information merits constitutional privacy protection.
See Whalen , 429 U.S. at 605-06 , 97 S.Ct. 869 .
And, the circuit courts of appeals are divided on this issue.
Compare Doe v. Southeastern Pa. Transp. Auth. , 72 F.3d 1133,1137 (3d Cir.1995) (recognizing that an individual possesses a constitutional privacy right in medical records), with Jarvis v. Wellman , 52 F.3d 125, 126 (6th Cir.1995) (holding that no constitutionally protected privacy interest exists in medical records).
We need not decide the question, however, because we conclude that even if Appellants possess a constitutional interest in the nondisclosure of their medical records, that interest is outweighed by the interest of the government in disclosure.
It is well settled that a state has a compelling interest in the identification of law breakers and in deterring future misconduct.
See Bloch , 156 F.3d at 686 ; Sanitation & Recycling Indus., Inc. v. New York , 107 F.3d 985, 998 (2d Cir.1997).
Here, any medical records disclosed were disseminated only to a limited number of law enforcement personnel--the prosecuting attorney and arresting officers--in the course of their official duties.
There is no indication that Appellants' medical records were disclosed to others within the Solicitor's Office, the CCPD, or the public in general.
See American Fed'n of Gov't Employees, AFL-CIO v. Department of Housing & Urban Dev. , 118 F.3d 786, 793 (D.C.Cir.1997) (holding "that the individual interest in protecting privacy is significantly less important where the information is collected by the government but not disseminated publicly"); Watson v. Lowcountry Red Cross , 974 F.2d 482, 487-88 (4th Cir.1992) (indicating that disclosure of information to a district court did not abridge constitutional privacy interest because the disclosure was not public).
Accordingly, we hold that no privacy right of Appellants was violated.
V. Finally, Appellants maintain that the district court erred in granting Appellees judgment as a matter of law on the claim that the manner in which the policy was applied constituted the state-law tort of abuse of process.
More specifically, Appellants assert that MUSC personnel improperly threatened Appellants with arrest in order to coerce them into obtaining substance abuse counseling.
Under South Carolina law, "[t]he essential elements of abuse of process are: (1) an ulterior purpose; and (2) a willful act in the use of the process not proper in the regular conduct of the proceeding."
Johnson v. Painter , 279 S.C. 390 , 307 S.E.2d 860, 860 (1983).
"The improper purpose usually takes the form of coercion to obtain a collateral advantage[ ] not properly involved in the proceeding itself."
Hainer v. American Med. Int'l, Inc. , 328 S.C. 128 , 492 S.E.2d 103, 107 (1997).
In order to satisfy the requirement of an improper act, the plaintiff must show that the defendant made "[s]ome definite act or threat not authorized by the process or aimed at an object not legitimate in the use of the process There is no liability where the defendant has done nothing more than carry out the process to its authorized conclusion, even though with bad intentions."
Id. Here, the district court determined that MUSC personnel did not have an improper ulterior purpose in advising women who tested positive for cocaine use that they would be subject to arrest if they did not obtain substance abuse counseling.
Since Appellees did not seek to obtain any collateral advantage for themselves, the court reasoned, there could be no abuse of process.
We need not decide whether Appellees had an ulterior purpose, however, because we conclude that they performed no act not authorized by the process.
At most, Appellees accurately informed Appellants that ingestion of cocaine after the 24th week of pregnancy constituted a criminal offense for which they could be prosecuted.
That maternity patients who tested positive for cocaine use could avoid criminal prosecution by obtaining treatment does not render the implementation of the policy abusive.
Cf. Johnson , 307 S.E.2d at 861 (holding that offer to abandon criminal prosecution in exchange for restitution did not amount to abuse of process).
VI.
In sum, we reject Appellants' challenges to the judgments in favor of Appellees.
Accordingly, we affirm.
AFFIRMED .
