 LINN, Circuit Judge.
This case concerns the application of 28 U.S.C. 1500 , the statute that divests the United States Court of Federal Claims of jurisdiction over "any claim for or in respect to which the plaintiff or his assignee has pending in any other court any suit or process against the United States."
Applying 1500 , the Court of Federal Claims dismissed an action brought by the Tohono O'odham Nation (the "Nation") alleging that the United States breached certain fiduciary duties as trustee of funds and property owned by the Nation.
Tohono O'odham, Nation v. United States , 79 Fed.Cl.
645 , 646 (2007).
Because we conclude that the Nation's complaint in the Court of Federal Claims seeks relief that is different from the relief sought in its earlier-filed district court action, we reverse.
I. BACKGROUND The Nation is a federally recognized Indian tribe of approximately 26, 000 members, located in Arizona.
Tohono O'odham Nation , 79 Fed.Cl.
at 646 .
Collectively, the Nation's reservations consist of nearly three million acres of land.
Id .
The United States manages the Nation's land and holds income derived from that land in trust, including income from the sale of natural resources and income from leases and other conveyances to third parties.
Id .
Additionally, the United States holds in trust money awarded to the Nation as a result of legal judgments, including $26 million that the United States paid to the Nation to settle a takings and trespass action in 1976.
Id .
On December 28, 2006, the Nation brought an action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia against the Secretary of the Interior, the Special Trustee for American Indians, and the Secretary of the Treasury, alleging that the United States had breached certain fiduciary duties in connection with its management of the Nation's trust assets.
See Tohono O'odham Nation v. Kempthorne , No. 1:06-CV02236, Doc.
1, at 1 (D.D.C.
Dec. 28, 2006) (" District Court Complaint ").
Specifically, the Nation presented in two counts "an action to seek redress of breaches of trust by the United States, acting by and through the defendants, in the management and accounting of trust assets, including funds and lands, belonging to the plaintiff .
.
.
and to compel the defendants to provide a full and complete accounting [**2] of all trust assets belonging to the Nation and to correct the balances of the Nation's trust fund accounts to reflect accurate balances."
Id. at 1-2 .
The Nation's prayer for relief requested nine remedies: 1.
For a decree construing the trust obligations of the defendants to the Nation, including, but not limited to, the duty to provide a complete, accurate, and adequate accounting of all trust assets belonging to the Nation and held in trust by the defendants.
2.
For a decree that the United States, acting through the defendants, has been in breach of its trust obligations since the inception of this trust and continues to be in breach of those duties today, specifically including, inter alia , its fiduciary duty to provide a complete, accurate, and adequate accounting of all trust assets belonging to the Nation and held in trust by the United States.
3.
For a decree that the AA Reports do not constitute the complete, accurate, and adequate accounting that the defendants are obligated to provide to the Nation.
4.
For a decree delineating the fiduciary duties owed by the defendants to the Nation with respect to the management and administration of the trust assets belonging to the Nation.
5.
For a decree directing the defendants (1) to provide a complete, accurate, and adequate accounting of the Nation's trust assets, including, but not limited to, funds under the custody and control of the United States and (2) to comply with all other fiduciary duties as determined by this Court.
6.
For a decree providing for the restatement of the Nation's trust fund account balances in conformity with this accounting, as well as any additional equitable relief that may be appropriate (e.g., disgorgement, equitable restitution, or an injunction directing the trustee to take action against third parties).
7.
For a decree requiring the defendants to provide to the Nation all material information regarding the management and administration of the trust assets belonging to the Nation and held in trust for its benefit by the defendants.
8.
For an award of the Nation's costs of suit, including, without limitation, attorneys' fees under the Equal Access to Justice Act and other statutes as well as general equitable principles, and the fees and costs of expert assistance.
9.
For such other and further relief as the Court, as a Chancellor sitting in equity, may deem just and proper.
Id. at 18-19 .
On December 29, 2006 — one day after it filed its district court complaint — the Nation brought a second action in the Court of Federal Claims.
The complaint characterized that second action as "an action for money damages against the United States, brought to redress gross breaches of trust by the United States .
.
.
as trustees and trustee-delegates of land, mineral resources and other assets held by them for the benefit of the Tohono O'odham Nation."
Tohono O'odham Nation v. United States , No. 06-CV-944, Doc.
1, at 1, (Ct. Fed.Cl.
Dec. 29, 2006) (" Court of Federal Claims Complaint ").
In its Court of Federal Claims action, the Nation asserted four counts, entitled "Damages Resulting from the United States' Breach of Fiduciary [**3] Duty with Respect to the Management of the Nation's Mineral Estate," "Damages Arising from the United States' Breach of Fiduciary Duty with Respect to the Management of the Nation's Non-Mineral Estate," "Damages Arising from the United States' Breach of Fiduciary Duty with Respect to the Management of Judgment Funds," and "Damages Arising from the United States' Breach of Fiduciary Duty with Respect to Deposit and Investment of Trust Funds."
Id. at 9-12 .
In its prayer for relief, the Nation asked: 1.
For a determination that the Defendant is liable to the Nation in damages for the injuries and losses caused as a result of Defendant's breaches of fiduciary duty; 2.
For a determination of the amount of damages due the Nation plus interest as allowed by law; 3.
That the costs of this action, including reasonable attorneys fees, be awarded to the Nation; 4.
For such other and further relief as the Court deems just and appropriate.
Id. at 13 .
The United States moved to dismiss the Nation's action in the Court of Federal Claims for lack of jurisdiction in light of 28 U.S.C. 1500 .
Tohono O'odham Nation , 79 Fed.Cl.
at 646 .
The Court of Federal Claims concluded that the Nation's claim "arises from the same operative facts and seeks the same relief as the claim in district court."
Id. at 659 .
As a result, the Court of Federal Claims held that it lacked jurisdiction under 1500 , and it granted the United States' motion to dismiss.
Id .
The Nation timely appealed.
We have jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1295 (a)(3) (2006).
"We review the Court of Federal Claims's dismissal for lack of jurisdiction de novo."
Sacco v. United States , 452 F.3d 1305 , 1308 (Fed. Cir. 2006).
II.
DISCUSSION Section 1500 provides: The United States Court of Federal Claims shall not have jurisdiction of any claim for or in respect to which the plaintiff or his assignee has pending in any other court any suit or process against the United States or any person who, at the time when the cause of action alleged in such suit or process arose, was, in respect thereto, acting or professing to act, directly or indirectly under the authority of the United States.
28 U.S.C. 1500 (emphasis added).
Following a series of cases in which this court interpreted the meaning of "claim" in 1500 , see, e.g., Johns-Manville Corp. v. United States , 855 F.2d 1556 (Fed. Cir. 1988); UNR Indus., Inc. v. United States , 962 F.2d 1013 (Fed. Cir. 1992) (en banc), the Supreme Court addressed the issue in Keene Corp. v. United States , 508 U.S. 200 , 113 S.Ct. 2035 , 124 L.Ed.2d 118 (1993), aff'g UNR , 962 F.2d 1013 .
The Supreme Court remarked that 1500 "requires a comparison between the claims raised in the Court of Federal Claims and in the other lawsuit."
Keene , 508 U.S. at 210 , 113 S.Ct. 2035 .
The Supreme Court also recognized, however, that 1500 does not define the critical term "claim" and that "[t]he exact nature of the things to be compared is not illuminated .
.
.
by the awkward formulation of 1500 ."
Id .
In Keene , the Supreme Court held that "the comparison of the two cases for purposes of possible dismissal would turn on whether the plaintiff's other suit was based on substantially the same operative facts as the Court of Claims action, at least if there was some overlap in the relief requested."
Id. at 212 , 113 S.Ct. 2035 .
The Supreme Court expressly left open "whether two actions based on the same operative facts, but seeking completely different relief, would implicate 1500 ."
Id. at 213 n. 6, 113 S.Ct. 2035 .
The [**4] dissent treats the Supreme Court's analysis in Keene as the final word on the matter.
See Dissenting Op. at 1293, 1293-96.
However, shortly after Keene , this court, sitting en banc, interpreted and applied the Keene opinion and expressly addressed the question that Keene left open.
In Loveladies Harbor, Inc. v. United States , after reviewing this court's earlier tests for the same claim in 1500 cases in light of the Supreme Court's holding in Keene , we held: Taken together, these tests produce a working definition of "claims" for the purpose of applying 1500 .
For the Court of Federal Claims to be precluded from hearing a claim under 1500 , the claim pending in another court must arise from the same operative facts , and must seek the same relief.
27 F.3d 1545 , 1551 (Fed. Cir. 1994) (en banc).
It is the Loveladies court's interpretation of Keene that is binding on this panel.
See, e.g., Barclay v. United States , 443 F.3d 1368 , 1373 (Fed. Cir. 2006) ("Panels of this court are bound by previous precedential decisions until overturned by the Supreme Court or by this court en banc.
"); Foster v. Hallco Mfg. Co. , 947 F.2d 469 , 475 n. 5 (Fed. Cir. 1991) (remarking that district court committed legal error by reinterpreting an earlier Supreme Court case, rather than applying this court's subsequent interpretation of that case); see also Walton v. Bisco Indus., Inc. , 119 F.3d 368 , 371 n. 4 (5th Cir. 1997) ("To the extent that [the appellant] believes that we have construed [an earlier Supreme Court decision] incorrectly, we note that absent an intervening Supreme Court decision or a decision by this court sitting en banc, we are bound by a prior panel's interpretation.
"); Tucker v. Phyfer , 819 F.2d 1030 , 1035 n. 7 (11th Cir. 1987) ("[H]ad the [earlier] panel expressly considered [two Supreme Court decisions], we would be bound by its interpretation and application of those decisions.
"); Diamond Shamrock Co. v. N.L.R.B.
, 443 F.2d 52 , 60 n. 27 (3d Cir. 1971) (holding that court is bound by prior panel's interpretation of Supreme Court decision); cf. United States v. Rapanos , 376 F.3d 629 , 642 (6th Cir. 2004), vacated on other grounds , 547 U.S. 715 , 126 S.Ct. 2208 , 165 L.Ed.2d 159 (2006) (rejecting appellee's argument concerning interpretation of a Supreme Court decision because it had "previously been adjudicated by this court, in a published disposition, and its conclusion is entitled to stare decisis ").
The dissent errs by interpreting and applying Keene de novo and ignoring the interpretation of Keene set forth in Loveladies.
Under the test set forth in Loveladies , 1500 is applicable only if two claims "arise from the same operative facts" and "seek the same relief."
Loveladies , 27 F.3d at 1551 .
Conversely, if an action in the Court of Federal Claims either arises from different operative facts or seeks completely different relief than the earlier-filed action, then 1500 does not divest the Court of Federal Claims of jurisdiction.
In this case, the "same relief" prong is dispositive.
[fn1] Drawing on the "distinctly different" language in Loveladies , the United States argues for a sweeping rule that "it is the form of the relief that matters — here, money."
Br. of Def.-Appellee United States at 43; see also id. at 43 n. 10 (arguing for "[a] rule that it is the form of relief sought in the two courts that matters for purposes of Section 1500 ").
In the United States' view, the "same relief" prong [**5] is always satisfied whenever two complaints both seek any relief in the form of money — irrespective of any differences in the amounts requested, the basis for the calculation of those amounts, the alleged injuries giving rise to those amounts, or the court's authority for awarding the requested money (i.e., as damages, as an equitable remedy, or under some other authority).
We disagree that the "distinctly different" language in Loveladies compels such a sweeping rule.
To the contrary, Loveladies refers interchangeably to "distinctly different" relief and simply "different" relief.
See, e.g., Loveladies , 27 F.3d at 1549 ("distinctly different relief"); Id .
at 1550 ("different form of relief"); Id .
at 1551 ("relief distinctly different"); Id .
at 1552 ("distinctly different relief"); Id .
at 1552-53 ("different relief"); Id .
at 1553 ("relief different").
We see no meaningful difference — distinct or otherwise — between "different" and "distinctly different."
Either the relief requested in two complaints is the same, or it is different.
An award of back wages for a particular time period under the Equal Pay Act is the same as — not "different" or "distinctly different" from — an award of back wages for that same time period under Title VII .
See Harbuck v. United States , 378 F.3d 1324 , 1329 (Fed. Cir. 2004).
By contrast, injunctive relief is "different" — or "distinctly different" — from money damages.
See, e.g., Johns-Manville , 855 F.2d at 1566 .
There is no requirement of any heightened showing of "difference."
Rather, we must determine simply whether the relief that the Nation requested in its Court of Federal Claims complaint is the same as the relief that it requested in its district court complaint.
To answer that question, we look to each complaint's prayer for relief.
See Loveladies , 27 F.3d at 1553 (focusing on prayers for relief).
In its district court complaint, the Nation requested relief that falls into seven categories: (i) a declaration that the United States has certain specific trust obligations (requests 1 and 4); (ii) a declaration that the United States is in breach of those obligations (requests 2 and 3); (iii) an accounting (requests 5(1) and 7); (iv) an order directing the United States to comply with its other trust obligations going forward (request 5(2)); (v) restatement of trust account balances in conformity with the accounting "as well as any additional equitable relief that may be appropriate (e.g., disgorgement, equitable restitution, or an injunction directing the trustee to take action against third parties)" (request 6); (vi) costs and attorneys' fees (request 8); and (vii) "other and further relief as the Court, as a Chancellor sitting in equity, may deem just and proper" (request 9).
District Court Complaint , at 18-19.
In essence, the Nation requested that the district court declare that the United States was in breach of its duties as a trustee and order specific performance of those duties.
Notably, all of the requested relief is equitable relief, not damages.
See Johns-Manville , 855 F.2d at 1566 (distinguishing "money" damages and "equitable" relief as "different type[s] of relief" for purposes of 1500 ); Loveladies , 27 F.3d at 1550 (same).
The Nation, in fact, was careful to limit its request for "other and further relief" in the [**6] district court to relief "as the Court, as a Chancellor sitting in equity, may deem just and proper."
District Court Complaint , at 19.
By contrast, the Nation's complaint in the Court of Federal Claims seeks damages at law, not equitable relief.
In its prayer for relief in the Court of Federal Claims, the Nation requested only damages (requests 1 and 2), attorneys' fees and costs (request 3), and "such other and further relief as the Court deems just and appropriate" (request 4).
Court of Federal Claims Complaint , at 13.
Moreover, the word "Damages" appears in the title of all four of the Nation's counts.
Id. at 9-12 .
Nowhere in its prayer for relief in the Court of Federal Claims does the Nation seek specific performance, an injunction, or any other type of equitable relief.
The Nation's careful separation of equitable relief and money damages is critical to the 1500 analysis in this case, just as it was in Loveladies.
In concluding that the two complaints at issue requested different relief, the court in Loveladies reasoned that "[i]t is important to note that the prayer in the Court of Claims complaint contained an express request for damages.
Significantly, that request was missing from the complaint in the district court."
Loveladies , 27 F.3d at 1553 .
Likewise, in this case, the Nation's complaint in the district court requests only equitable relief and not damages, while the Nation's complaint in the Court of Federal Claims requests only damages and not equitable relief.
The Court of Federal Claims identified two areas of "what looks like overlapping relief (money and an accounting in both courts)."
Tohono O'odham Nation , 79 Fed.Cl.
at 656 .
As for "money," the court reasoned that the Nation's "district court complaint specifically seeks money (disgorgement, restatement of accounts, and restitution)," and that this request overlaps with its request for money damages in the Court of Federal Claims.
Id. at 652 .
As far as an accounting, the court concluded that an accounting in aid of judgment in the Court of Federal Claims would overlap with the request for an accounting in the district court.
We disagree.
The Nation's district court complaint requests an accounting and a "restatement of the Nation's trust fund account balances in conformity with this accounting, as well as any additional equitable relief that may be appropriate" including disgorgement or equitable restitution.
District Court Complaint , at 18.
In other words, the Nation is requesting that, following the accounting, its account balances be adjusted to reflect the correct amounts to correct any errors discovered in the accounting.
The Nation refers to this as a request for "old money" — namely, money that is already in the government's possession, but that erroneously does not appear in the Nation's accounts.
In the course of making an adjustment of account balances, it may be necessary for the court to order other "equitable relief that may be appropriate," including disgorgement or equitable restitution, if it is discovered that the United States has misappropriated funds from the Nation's trust and/or improperly profited from the Nation' [**7] s "old money."
This equitable relief as "appropriate" in connection with the accounting is not the same as the "damages for the injuries and losses" that the Nation has requested in the Court of Federal Claims.
Court of Federal Claims Complaint , at 13.
Notably, each of the "injuries" that the Nation alleges in the Court of Federal Claims is an injury resulting from the United States' failure to properly manage the Nation's assets to obtain the maximum value.
See id. at 9 (count 1 alleging mismanagement of mineral estate); id. at 10 (count 2 alleging mismanagement of non-mineral estate); id. at 11 (count 3 alleging mismanagement of judgment funds); id. at 12 (count 4 alleging mismanagement in deposit and investment of funds).
The "injuries and losses" for which the Nation seeks relief are essentially consequential damages — profits that the Nation would have made but for the United States' mismanagement.
The Nation refers to these profits as "new money."
Thus, the Court of Federal Claims complaint seeks damages in the form of "new money" that the Nation should have earned as profit but did not, while the district court complaint seeks return of "old money" that belongs to the Nation but erroneously does not appear on its balance sheet.
These are not the same types of relief.
The dissent acknowledges that it would be possible to craft two complaints to avoid 1500 by requesting "old money" in one, and "new money" in the other.
Dissenting Op. at 1295.
However, the dissent concludes that the Nation's complaint in the Court of Federal Claims is not limited to "new money."
Id .
Specifically, the dissent reasons that the Court of Federal Claims complaint "alleges fiduciary breaches related to old money'" and then "broadly asks for money for breaches of the fiduciary duty."
Id. at 1295-96 .
But the Nation's Court of Federal Claims complaint does not "broadly ask[] for money" as the dissent suggests.
To the contrary, the Court of Federal Claims complaint expressly asks for damages alone — not any other form of monetary relief, and not equitable relief of any type.
See, e.g., Court of Federal Claims Complaint at 1 (entitled "COMPLAINT FOR DAMAGES FOR BREACH OF TRUST OBLIGATIONS"); id .
("This is an action for money damages.
.
.
."
(emphasis added)); id .
("[The] Nation seeks damages for Defendant's mismanagement of the Nation's trust property."
(emphasis added)).
Nowhere in the Court of Federal Claims complaint does the Nation make any broad request for "money for breaches of fiduciary duty."
Moreover, the very language that the dissent quotes from the Nation's prayer for relief makes clear that the Nation is requesting only consequential damages — i.e., "new money" — not restitution, disgorgement, or other equitable "old money" relief in the Court of Federal Claims: "For a determination that the Defendant is liable to the Nation in damages for the injuries and losses caused as a result of Defendant's breaches of fiduciary duty."
Court of Federal Claims Complaint at 13 (emphases added).
We therefore disagree with the dissent that the Nation made any request for "old money" in the Court of Federal Claims.
As to the second area of "what looks like overlapping relief" identified [**8] by the Court of Federal Claims, the Nation did not — as the Court of Federal Claims suggests — "ask[] for .
.
.
an accounting in both courts."
Tohono O'odham Nation , 79 Fed.Cl.
at 656 .
As the Court of Federal Claims pointed out, it is the relief that the plaintiff requests that is relevant under 1500.
Id .
at 654 (citing Keene , 508 U.S. at 212 , 113 S.Ct. 2035 ; Frantz Equip. Co. v. United States , 120 Ct.Cl.
312 , 98 F.Supp.
579 , 580 (Ct.Cl.
1951)).
The Nation's prayer for relief in the Court of Federal Claims does not request an accounting.
The fact that, "assuming this action were to proceed in [the Court of Federal Claims], and plaintiff satisfied its burdens of proof, what would ensue would amount to an accounting, albeit in aid of judgment," id. at 653 , does not transform the Nation's unambiguous request for damages into a request for an accounting.
Finally, we address the United States' argument that permitting the Nation's claims to go forward in the Court of Federal Claims would undermine the policy and purpose of 1500 .
The United States argues that "the policy and purpose underlying Section 1500 is that the United States not be required to defend the same claims at the same time in two different courts; that is exactly what the Nation seeks to do here."
Br. of Defendant-Appellee United States at 11-12; see also Tohono O'odham , 79 Fed.Cl.
at 654 (noting that the "purpose of section 1500 was to force plaintiffs to elect between the Court of Claims and another court in which to pursue its whole claim against the government" (citing Casman v. United States , 135 Ct.Cl.
647 , 650 (1956))).
The dissent similarly argues that 1500 allows the government to avoid duplicative litigation.
Dissenting Op. at 1293 n. 1.
In practice, 1500 does not actually prevent a plaintiff from filing two actions seeking the same relief for the same claims.
It merely requires that the plaintiff file its action in the Court of Federal Claims before it files its district court complaint.
This anomalous rule is the result of a series of decisions by this court; our predecessor court, and the Supreme Court.
In Tecon Engineers, Inc. v. United States , our predecessor court held that "the only reasonable interpretation of [ 1500 ] is that it serves to deprive [the Court of Federal Claims] of jurisdiction of any claim for or in respect to which plaintiff has pending in any other court any suit against the United States, only when the suit shall have been commenced in the other court before the claim was filed in [the Court of Federal Claims]."
170 Ct.Cl.
389 , 343 F.2d 943 , 949 (1965).
Later, this court, sitting en banc, overruled Tecon.
UNR , 962 F.2d at 1022-23 .
The Supreme Court granted certiorari in UNR (then re-named Keene ), and held that it was "unnecessary to consider, much less repudiate, the judicially created exceptions' to 1500 found in Tecon Engineers " and other cases.
Keene , 508 U.S. at 216 , 113 S.Ct. 2035 .
We have since recognized that Tecon is still good law, because the aspect of UNR that had overruled it was undone by the Supreme Court.
See, e.g., Hardwick Bros. Co. II v. United States , 72 F.3d 883 , 886 (1995) ("[T]he Supreme Court expressly declined to overturn Tecon Engineers , and this court in Loveladies I acknowledged the continuing vitality of Tecon as an established precedent.
"); id. ("After UNR/Keene and Loveladies I, Tecon Engineers remains good law and binding on this court.").
Therefore, in this case, had the Nation simply [**9] filed its complaints in reverse order, 1500 would never have even come into play.
The Supreme Court has discussed at length the post-Civil War origins of 1500 .
See, e.g., Keene , 508 U.S. at 206 , 113 S.Ct. 2035 (remarking that the lineage of 1500 "runs back more than a century" and that its original purpose was to preclude duplicative actions seeking compensation for seized cotton by parties who had given aid to Confederate soldiers).
However, neither the Supreme Court nor this court has found any purpose that 1500 serves today.
Because a party can simply file its Court of Federal Claims action first and avoid 1500 entirely, it functions as nothing more than a "jurisdictional dance."
Loveladies , 27 F.3d at 1549 .
Thus, the government's and the dissent's argument about the policy and purpose of the statute rings hollow and, moreover, is of no real consequence in this appeal.
As we explained in Loveladies: Litigation can serve public interests as well as the particular interests of the parties.
The nation is served by private litigation which accomplishes public ends, for example, by checking the power of the Government through suits brought under the APA or under the takings clause of the Fifth Amendment.
Because this nation relies in significant degree on litigation to control the excesses to which Government may from time to time be prone, it would not be sound policy to force plaintiffs to forego monetary claims in order to challenge the validity of Government action, or to preclude challenges to the validity of Government action in order to protect a Constitutional claim for compensation.
Section 1500 was enacted to preclude duplicate cotton claims — claims for money damages — at a time when res judicata principles did not provide the Government with protection against such "duplicative lawsuits."
Whatever viability remains in 1500 , absent a clear expression of Congressional intent we ought not extend the statute to allow the Government to foreclose non-duplicative suits, and to deny remedies the Constitution and statutes otherwise provide.
Id. at 1555-56 (citations omitted).
Although our decision in this case will require the government to litigate in multiple fora, we note that there is no risk of double recovery.
The Nation's complaint in the Court of Federal Claims seeks only "new money" damages — relief that the Nation has not requested in district court, and which the district court is, in any event, powerless to award.
See 5 U.S.C. 702 (excluding district court actions seeking "money damages" from waiver of sovereign immunity).
Conversely, the Nation's complaint in district court seeks only separate equitable relief, which the Court of Federal Claims is powerless to award.
See, e.g., Nat'l Air Traffic Controllers Ass'n v. United States , 160 F.3d 714 , 716 (Fed. Cir. 1998) ("Although the Tucker Act has been amended to permit the Court of Federal Claims to grant equitable relief ancillary to claims for monetary relief over which it has jurisdiction, there is no provision giving the Court of Federal Claims jurisdiction to grant equitable relief when it is unrelated to a claim for monetary relief pending before the court."
(citations omitted)).
Our decision [**10] therefore will not permit the Nation to obtain double recovery.
Because the relief requested in the Nation's district court complaint is different from the relief requested in its Court of Federal Claims complaint, 1500 does not divest the Court of Federal Claims of jurisdiction.
The Court of Federal Claims therefore erred by dismissing the Nation's action for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.
III.
CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court of Federal Claims's order dismissing the Nation's complaint is reversed.
We remand for proceedings consistent with this opinion.
REVERSED AND REMANDED.
