 BAZELON , Circuit Judge.
While bargaining over the terms of a new contract, the technicians of Station WBTV, Charlotte, North Carolina, were discharged by their employer, the Jefferson Standard Broadcasting Company, for distributing what has come to be termed the "second-class" handbill.
It reads as follows: [**334] 1 In a complaint filed with the Board, the Local Union, representing the technicians, contended that publication and distribution of the handbill was a concerted activity protected by 7 of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended, 2 and that the discharges were an unfair labor practice.
The Board's Trial Examiner agreed.
The Board, however, one member dissenting, reversed his decision.
It excluded from protection the "second-class" handbill phase of the "otherwise concededly lawful and protected" peaceful picketing sponsored by the Union.
The Union now seeks modification of that part of the Board's order.
Despite the broad language of 7 , which assures employees the "right to engage in concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection," certain activities are excluded from the Act's protective ambit.
For example, the Act expressly prohibits jurisdictional strikes, secondary boycotts and strikes for recognition in defiance of a certified union.
3 And the courts have denied protection to employees resorting to "unlawful" means, e. g. , a strike in contravention of the purpose of the Act, 4 in violation of a federal statute forbidding mutiny, 5 or of local laws prohibiting acts of violence or seizure of property; 6 or seeking "unlawful" objectives, e. g. , concerted action to force an employer to violate a federal statute.
7 The Board, with the approval [**335] of the House Committee of Conference handling the bill which became the Labor Management Relations Act, "has been consistently applying the principles established by the courts."
8 Protection under 7 of the Act, then, is withdrawn only from those concerted activities which contravene either (a) specific provisions or basic policies of the Act or of related federal statutes, or (b) specific rules of other federal or local law that is not incompatible with the Board's governing statute.
The Supreme Court has indicated that "[t]he conduct thus protected is lawful conduct."
9 And Judge Learned Hand, in a case involving a union publication which severely criticized the employer's business dealings, said: "[S]o long as the 'activity' is not unlawful, we can see no justification for making it the occasion for a discharge *."
10 More recently the Board in the Hoover Co. case reiterated the correct rule when it declared that it is "not free to measure concerted activity in terms of whether the conduct is wise or fair, or satisfies standards which we think desirable."
11 The Board properly applied this rule to the extent that it found that the objective of the "second-class" handbill "--to extract a concession from the employer with respect to the terms of their employment--was lawful."
12 But the Board did not apply this rule to the handbill as a means for achieving that objective.
13 Instead of determining the legality or illegality of the use of the handbill, it only found that, unlike other handbills used in the dispute which were signed by the Union and made reference to the pending negotiations, this one was "hardly less 'indefensible' than acts of physical sabotage" 14 --apparently primarily because its purpose was undisclosed on its face.
15 It denied protection under 7 , saying that "the gist of their appeal to the public was that the employer ought to be boycotted because he offered a shoddy product to the consuming public--not because he was 'unfair' to the employees who worked on that product."
16 By giving "indefensible" a vague content different from "unlawful," 17 the Board misconceived the scope of the established rule.
[**336] We think the Board failed to make the finding essential to its conclusion that the concerted activity was unprotected.
Sound practice in judicial review of administrative orders precludes this court from determining "unlawfulness" without a prior consideration and finding by the Board.
18 Since the initial judgment is within the province of the Board, the petition for modification and enforcement of that part of the order before the court is denied, and the case is remanded 19 to the Board for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
