 LEMMON , Circuit Judge.
While the National Labor Relations Act, 29 U.S.C.A. 151 et seq., hereinafter referred to as the Act, has been termed in "its inception a novel experiment", which "has remained a controversial piece of legislation", 1 its provisions dealing with secondary boycotts--at least insofar as they are applicable to the instant case--seem to us to be tolerably clear and eminently fair.
1.
Statement of the Case The Sand Door and Plywood Company, of Los Angeles, California hereinafter Sand, on August 25, 1954, filed a charge against the respondents, hereinafter the Union, alleging that the latter had engaged in unfair labor practices within the meaning of 29 U.S.C.A. 158(b) (4) (A).
On September 24, 1954, the General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board, hereinafter the Board, before which the charge had been filed, presented a complaint against the Union, which in substance alleged that the Union, since on or about August 17, 1954, [had] instructed the employees of Havstad & Jensen" at a certain college to be detailed hereinafter, and the employees of other employers, "to refuse to install Paine Rezo doors [infra] because [the Union's] rules and by-laws prohibit the installation of products not bearing the union label," etc.
It was further alleged that by such conduct the Union had "engaged in, and induced and encouraged the employees of Havstad & Jensen and of other employers to engage in, strikes or concerted refusals in the course of their employment to use, manufacture, [etc.] goods, articles, [etc.] or to perform services."
The complaint also averred that an object of the Union's "acts and conduct is to force or require Havstad & Jensen, Watson and Dreps [infra] and other employers or persons to cease using, [etc.] or otherwise dealing in the products of Sand and Paine and to cease doing business with Sand and Paine".
By the above acts, the complaint continued, the Union was engaging in unfair labor practices within 158(b) (4) (A).
The Union's answer denied the commission of the unfair labor practices alleged, and affirmatively averred that "the Board lacked jurisdiction over the subject matter of the complaint or of the persons of the respondents".
On October 15, 1954, Sand filed a "First Amended Charge", and on the same day the Board filed an "Amendment to Complaint", neither of which materially altered their respective original allegations.
On December 13, 1954, the Trial Examiner filed an "Intermediate Report and Recommended Order", in which it was "recommended that the complaint be dismissed in its entirety".
On August 26, 1955, the Board handed down a "Decision and Order" holding that "By inducing and encouraging employees of Havstad and Jensen to engage in a strike or concerted refusal in the course of their employment to handle or install doors manufactured by Paine Lumber company [hereafter Paine], an object thereof being to force and require Havstad and Jensen to cease using, handling or otherwise dealing in the products of Paine and to force or require Sand to cease doing business with Paine *, the [Union has] engaged in and [is] engaging in unfair labor practices within the meaning of Section 8(b) (4) (A) of the Act".
113 NLRB 1210 , No. 123.
The Decision and Order were signed by two members of the Board, including the chairman, and was specially concurred in by a third member.
Two members dissented.
On February 3, 1956, the Board filed in this Court a petition for enforcement of the Board's order.
It is that petition which we are here considering.
2.
Statement of Facts Havstad and Jensen, joint venturers, were engaged in the construction of a hospital and other buildings on the campus of the College of Medical Evangelists, a medical school and nurses' training school owned and operated by the Seventh Day Adventists in Los Angeles.
Doors for the hospital, which was known as the White Memorial Hospital, were manufactured by Paine, and were purchased by Sand, a wholesale jobber and exclusive agent for Paine in Southern California.
Sand sold the doors to Watson & Dreps, mill work contractors, with delivery between August 14, 1954, and August 17, 1954.
Although counsel for the Union claims that "The record does not show what Watson & Dreps did with these doors", there is testimony that delivery of the doors to the job, where Havstad & Jensen were in charge, commenced on the Friday before August 17, and that on August 17, a member of the firm of Watson & Dreps informed James C. Barron, vice president and general manager of Sand, that Emmett R. Jensen, one of the joint venturers with Larry C. Havstad, had reported "that the carpenters on the job had refused to handle the doors because the doors did not have a union label."
This testimony provides a sufficient link between Watson & Dreps and Havstad & Jensen, as regards the doors.
Between 10 and 11 o'clock in the forenoon of August 17, 1954, Arnold Steinert, carpenter foreman of Havstad & Jensen, was told by Nathan Fleisher, business agent of Local 1976, one of the respondents herein, that "we'd have to quit hanging the doors until they got it settled that they were union or non-union doors, and they were going to check on 'em and in a day or two they would be cleared and then we could go ahead and go to work he said they were non-union doors, and they didn't have a label and we'd have to quit hanging the doors until it was settled."
Earlier in the morning, Steinert had assigned laborers "to move the doors from floor to floor, the doors that went on each floor".
He had also assigned Sam Agronovich, a carpenter, to start hanging doors.
When Steinert received the order from Fleisher "to quit hanging the doors", he proceeded to carry out the mandate: Fleisher was present when Steinert talked to Agronovich.
When James Layton Nicholson, Havstad & Jensen's general superintendent of construction on the White Memorial Hospital project, arrived at his office that same morning, he was informed by the firm's secretary that "Fleisher had been on the job and had called the carpenters off from hanging the doors."
Nicholson went to the jobsite and "observed that the laborers that [were] supposed to be placing the doors were not working at the time".
When he asked the laborers for the reason, "All they said is that the union stopped them from hanging the doors, and they [were] waiting for my foreman to replace them, or, in other words, give them other duties.
*" Nicholson found Fleisher, who was also at the building site, and asked him why he had stopped the men from hanging the doors.
The following conversation, according to Nicholson, ensued: At that juncture, Sam Agronovich and Saul Agronovich, the latter being the steward and also a carpenter, came up.
Superintendent Nicholson at first told them that "if we can't hang the doors they might as well pick up their tools."
Later Nicholson reconsidered the matter and told Steinert "to relocate the men and in such a way they could keep on working."
On that day and the next, James C. Barron, the Sand executive, supra , got into touch by telephone with Earl Thomas, of the Los Angeles County District Council of Carpenters.
In a second conversation Thomas informed Barron that he had received a telegram from a union officer in Wisconsin, informing him that "the doors were not union made and that Paine did not belong to any union."
According to Barron, the following conversation then ensued: Barron also talked to Fleisher, who told him "that the doors don't have a union label, and they have to be cleared before I can permit them to be hung."
Jensen, of Havstad & Jensen, also talked to Thomas, who told him that he had found out that Paine "was not a union operation," and "that the carpenters would not be able to handle those doors".
On Tuesday, October 5, 1954, after Sand had filed the instant charges and the Board had sought a temporary restraining order, Superintendent Nicholson, who was himself "a union man", and Steinert asked each carpenter, separately, whether he "would be willing to hang the doors", and from each there was received a negative reply, though some of the carpenters qualified their answers by saying that they would hang the doors if they "could get clearance" on them, or if the doors "were released".
The "By-Laws and Trade Rules" of the District Council of Carpenters of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters of America, of which Steinert was a member, provided that "Only members of the Brotherhood shall be permitted to do carpenter work on any job", and that "No member shall use, handle, install or erect any material produced or manufactured from wood that is not produced and manufactured by members of the Brotherhood *."
Similarly, the "Labor Agreement Between Southern California General Contractors and United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America," hereinafter "Labor Agreement", contains the following provision: The crucial question in this connection is whether such a provision justifies a work stoppage by the employees.
3.
The Applicable Statute 4.
The Board's Assertion of Jurisdiction was Proper Before the trial examiner, it was stipulated that in 1953, Sand received from Paine, the headquarters of which was at Oshkosh, Wisconsin, materials, including doors, valued at $185,796.84.
From January 1, 1954, to September 8, 1954, inclusive, Sand received from Paine, materials, including doors, valued at $103,503.05.
The doors in controversy are valued at $9,148.32.
Sand received the doors between August 10 and August 14, 1954, and notified Watson & Dreps, the buyers, who took delivery at Sand's warehouse during the period between August 14 and August 17.
We have already traced the delivery of the doors from Watson & Dreps to Havstad & Jensen.
In other words, Paine, whose products were the real target of the Union's actions, shipped materials valued at more than $100,000 from its Wisconsin plant to Sand, its Southern California distributor, during the first nine months of 1954, the crucial period here.
The Union, by refusing to use the doors on the Havstad & Jensen hospital job in Los Angeles, thereby interfered with more than a so-called de minimis flow of shipments into California.
This is sufficient to bring the Union's obstructionist activities within the Board's legal jurisdiction.
In National Labor Relations Board v. Denver Building & Construction Trades Council , 1951, 341 U.S. 675, 683-684 , 71 S.Ct. 943, 949 , 95 L.Ed. 1284 , the Board had found that the activities complained of had had a sufficient impact upon interstate commerce to sustain its jurisdiction, and the Court of Appeals was satisfied.
The Supreme Court commented that "We see no justification for reversing that conclusion," and added: The fact that the instant building, after its completion, might be used only for local purposes does not alter the fact that its construction, as distinguished from its later use, affected interstate commerce 2 It is immaterial, so far as the Board's legal jurisdiction is concerned, that Havstad & Jensen obtained the doors from Paine from an intermediary in California--Watson & Dreps--rather than by direct shipment from out of the State.
See National Labor Relations Board v. Cowell Portland Cement Co. , 9 Cir., 1945, 148 F.2d 237, 242 , certiorari denied, 1945, 326 U.S. 735 , 66 S.Ct. 44 , 90 L.Ed. 438 ; National Labor Relations Board v. Townsend , 9 Cir., 1950, 185 F.2d 378, 382-383 , certiorari denied, 1951, 341 U.S. 909 , 71 S.Ct. 621 , 95 L.Ed. 1346 .
We agree with the Board that the Trial Examiner erroneously designated Havstad & Jensen as the primary employer, in considering whether jurisdiction was to be asserted.
Havstad & Jensen was a neutral employer whose carpenters were unlawfully induced by Fleisher, via Steinert, to refuse to install the doors in question.
Paine was the primary employer, for it was Paine's products to which the Union objected.
Havstad & Jensen was the secondary employer.
It is clear, then, that the dispute had a sufficient impact upon commerce to be subject to the Board's jurisdiction as a matter of law.
We next address ourselves to the question of whether the Board should have assumed jurisdiction in the instant case. In other words, does the present controversy meet what the Union terms the Board's "monetary" standards?
In Jonesboro Grain Drying Co-operative , Case No. 32-RC-693, 110 NLRB 481, 483 , No. 67, decided on October 26, 1954, the Board announced, inter alia , the following jurisdictional standard: one or more Direct outflow standard: In Truck Drivers Local Union No. 649 (Jamestown Builders Exchange) , Case No. 3-CC-19, 93 NLRB 386, 387 , No. 51, decided on February 23, 1951, the Board said: sic Section 8(b) (4) 29 U.S.C.A. 158(b) Chief Judge Clark, in National Labor Relations Board v. Associated Musicians, etc. , 2 Cir., 1955, 226 F.2d 900, 907 , certiorari denied, 1956, 351 U.S. 962 , 76 S.Ct. 1025 , 100 L.Ed. 1483 , commented: Jamestown Builders Exchange supra McAllister Transfer infra 3 Finally, as Judge Mathews observed in National Labor Relations Board v. Stoller , 9 Cir., 1953, 207 F.2d 305, 307 , certiorari denied, 1954, 347 U.S. 919 , 74 S.Ct. 517 , 98 L.Ed. 1074 , "The general rule is that, where the Board has jurisdiction, as it had in this case, whether such jurisdiction should be exercised is for the Board, not the courts, to determine."
The Board's assertion of jurisdiction in the instant case was proper.
5.
The Board was Correct in Finding That the Union Violated the Act by Inducing Employees of Havstad & Jensen to Refuse to Install Paine Doors As we have seen, the evidence shows that there is no serious question that Steinert, following Fleisher's instructions, caused employees of Havstad & Jensen to engage in a concerted work stoppage for the object forbidden by Section 8(b) (4) (A).
The union contends that "If this idleness can be termed a work stoppage, it is clear that the cessation did not originate with the employees but was a direct result of managerial orders."
It is also urged that "Havstad & Jensen were parties to and bound by a collective bargaining agreement whereby they had previously agreed not to require 'workmen to handle non-union materials'."
In our view, there was inducement to a concerted refusal in the statutory sense, not authorized by the contract between Havstad & Jensen and the Union.
An employer may well remain free to decide, as a matter of business policy, whether he will accede to a union's boycott demands, or if he has already agreed to do so, whether he will fulfill his agreement.
An entirely different situation, however, is presented under 8(b) (4) (A) of the Act, 29 U.S.C.A. 158(b) (4) (A), supra , when it is sought to influence the employer's decision by a work stoppage of his employees.
Such a work stoppage, Congress has plainly declared, is unlawful, when the object--clearly present here--"is forcing or requiring any employer to cease using the products of any other manufacturer, or to cease doing business with any other person".
In the instant case, we have seen that, despite the "hot cargo" provision in the contract, supra , the employees had actually been handling Paine doors.
They ceased doing so only upon Fleisher's and Steinert's orders.
Those orders, we think, were in direct contravention of the mandate.
In National Labor Relations Board v. Washington-Oregon Shingle Weavers' Dist. Council , 9 Cir., 1954, 211 F.2d 149, 152 , we said: infra In General Drivers, etc., and American Iron and Machine Works Company, No. 121 , 115 NLRB 800, 801 , decided on March 15, 1956, the Board said: Section 8(b) (4) McAllister Transfer, Inc. 110 NLRB 1769 Sand Door and Plywood Co. 113 NLRB 1210 4 Section 8(b) (4) Section 8(b) (4) employer Similarly, in International Brotherhood of Teamsters, etc., and McAllister Transfer, Inc. , 110 NLRB 1769 , No. 224, supra , decided on December 16, 1954, the Board used the following language: Section 8(b) (4) all 93 Cong.Rec.
4323 secondary boycotts in order adequately to protect the public welfare which is inextricably involved in labor disputes acting in the public interest and not in vindication of purely private rights boycotts As was observed by Judge Bratton in National Labor Relations Board v. United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners, etc. , 10 Cir., 1950, 184 F.2d 60, 64 , certiorari denied, 1951, 341 U.S. 947 , 71 S.Ct. 1011 , 95 L.Ed. 1371 , "The basic purpose and objective of the section of the Act is to prohibit the involvement of employers in labor disputes of other employers with whom they are doing business."
Finally, we consider the Union's argument that the work stoppage "was a direct result of managerial orders".
That contention is based upon the theory that Steinert, the foreman, "acted solely as a representative of management when he instructed employees to cease their work on the doors".
Steinert was a member of Local 563 of the Union.
The By-Laws and Trade Rules of the Los Angeles County District Council of Carpenters required that he belong to the Union, and that he should hire no non-union members.
As foreman, he and the steward were "equally responsible for the enforcement of all By-Laws and Trade Rules," etc. Violators of that rule were "subject to a fine of $100.00 and/or expulsion".
Therefore, when Fleisher ordered Steinert to stop work on the doors because they were non-union, it is logical to assume that he was invoking Steinert's obligations under the Union's rules.
Cf. National Labor Relations Board v. Cement Masons Local No. 555 , 9 Cir., 1955, 225 F.2d 168, 173-174 , and cases there cited.
The fact that in some respects foremen, as has been said of buyers, "may also be agents of employers does not eliminate them from the scope of" 158(b) (4) (A).
Amalgamated Meat Cutters, etc. v. National Labor Relations Board , D.C., Cir., 1956, 237 F.2d 20, 23 .
The Union seeks to brush aside the force of its own rules by quoting the closing clause of Article XIII of the "Labor Agreement Between Southern California General Contractors and United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America", which reads as follows: The above rule is not applicable here.
We are not now concerned with Steinert's "relations" to "the contractors", but with his "relations" to his Union and his status and obligations therein.
No contract with his employers could interfere with those relations, so long as he remained a member of the Union, which he indubitably was.
So long as he remained a member, he was bound by the Union rules governing his relations to the Union.
The proposition is so plain as to require no further elaboration.
Nor could Steinert "waive" the Union's power to fine him $100 for violating the subsection of the "By-Laws and Trade Rules" holding him jointly responsible with the steward for their enforcement!
We hold that the Board was correct in holding that the Union, through its foreman Steinert and its business agent Fleisher, violated 158(b) (4) (A) by ordering employees of Havstad & Jensen to refuse to install Paine doors.
6.
Conclusion Accordingly, we hold that the Board's assertion of jurisdiction was proper, and that it was correct in finding that the Union violated the Act by ordering employees of Havstad & Jensen to refuse to install doors that had been manufactured by Paine.
A decree should issue enforcing the Board's order in full.
