 STEPHENS , Circuit Judge.
This is a case of first impression involving extradition of an alleged World War II war criminal.
Rafo Ivancevic, Consul General of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia, in August, 1951, filed, with the United States Commissioner at Los Angeles, California, a formal request upon behalf of his country that an order issue for the extradition of appellee Andrija Artukovic, alias Alois Anich, to Yugoslavia, in which country a warrant is outstanding for his arrest as a fugitive charged with the crime of murder.
1 An amended complaint was filed October 15, 1951.
The Commissioner ordered Artukovic held by the United States Marshal, and Artukovic thereupon petitioned the District Court for the issuance of the writ of habeas corpus praying that the court order his release.
Artukovic attacked the jurisdiction of the proceedings on two grounds: i. e., that the charge against him was of a political nature and therefore was not an extraditable offense, 2 and that no treaty of extradition existed between the United States and Yugoslavia.
After a hearing, the District Court held that the extradition treaty of 1902 between the United States of America and the Kingdom of Servia (Serbia) was not in force and effect between the United States of America and Yugoslavia, and ordered the release of appellee Artukovic.
Artukovic v. Boyle , D.C., 107 F.Supp.
11 .
The United States and Rafo Ivancevic, as Consul General of Yugoslavia, appealed.
This Court reversed, holding that the extradition treaty between the United States and the Kingdom of Servia (Serbia) in 1902 is a valid and effective treaty between the United States and the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia and remanded the case to the District Court for the adjudication of other issues in the case. Ivancevic v. Artukovic , 9 Cir., 1954, 211 F.2d 565 , certiorari denied 348 U.S. 818 , 75 S.Ct. 28 , 99 L.Ed. 645 , rehearing denied 348 U.S. 889 , 75 S.Ct. 202 , 99 L.Ed. 698 .
Further hearings were held in the District court as to the remaining issue, and that Court decided that the alleged offenses charged in the amended Complaint were of a "political character" within the meaning of Article VI of the treaty 3 and that therefore appellee Artukovic could not be extradited.
The District Judge pointed out that the matter was before him prior to any hearing by a committing magistrate, and the sole function of the court was to determine whether on the face of the pleadings an extraditable offense under the treaty was stated.
The court noted that the text of the amended Complaint differed from the Indictment, but that the Complaint had attached to it a copy of the Indictment as it was filed in the office of the County Public Prosecutor, Zagreb, Yugoslavia.
The District Court read the Complaint and the Indictment as a whole and made the following comments in its Order: In re Ezeta 62 F. 972 Section 316 The District Judge held (for the reasons above set forth) that Artukovic was entitled to the writ of habeas corpus and ordered its issuance and his discharge from custody.
Artukovic v. Boyle , D.C.1956, 140 F.Supp.
245 .
Appellant, Branko Karadzole, substituted as Consul General of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia, appeals from that judgment. 4 The Appeal.
This proceeding arises on habeas corpus prior to hearing before a committing magistrate, and is entirely proper if the District Court confines its determination to the question whether the committing magistrate has jurisdiction.
5 Terlinden v. Ames , 1902, 184 U.S. 270 , 22 S.Ct. 484 , 46 L.Ed. 534 ; In re Heilbonn, 1853, 1 Park.Cr.R., N.Y., 429.
The committing magistrate has jurisdiction, at this stage of the case, if there is a treaty and the commission of extraditable offenses is charged.
Terlinden v. Ames , supra ; In re Luis Oteiza y Cortes , 1889, 136 U.S. 330 , 10 S.Ct. 1031 , 34 L.Ed. 464 ; In re Stupp, 1875, 23 Fed.Cas.No.13,563, 12 Blatchf.
501 ; Ornelas v. Ruiz , 161 U.S. 502, 508 , 16 S.Ct. 689 , 40 L.Ed. 787 ; Fernandez v. Phillips , 268 U.S. 311 , 45 S.Ct. 541 , 69 L.Ed. 970 .
In Terlinden v. Ames , supra , the writ of habeas corpus was issued before the examination by the commissioner was entered upon, and the inquiry was held to be confined to the question of jurisdiction of the commissioner or magistrate.
It was therein determined that the committing magistrate had jurisdiction and the petition for the writ was dismissed.
But it was pointed out in the case that [ 184 U.S. 270 , 22 S.Ct. 488 ] "On the face of the complaint extraditable offences were charged to have been committed *."
We have previously held that a valid treaty exists between the United States and Yugoslavia.
Ivancevic v. Artukovic , supra .
The sole question therefore before the District Court was whether on the face of the Complaint and the attached Indictment, together with the facts of which the court could take judicial notice, it could clearly be said that the offenses charged were of a political character.
Appellant argues that it was error for the District Court to so hold.
We initially determine this point without considering any possible legal significance that might result because the offenses charged are called "war crimes" in the Indictment, and the fact that appellant admits that Artukovic is sought as a "war criminal."
Perhaps the leading case on the subject is In re Castioni , (1891) 1 Q.B.
149 .
In that case, the following pertinent comments are made: The Castioni case was recently reconsidered by the English courts (Queen's Bench Division) in Ex parte Kolczynski, 1954, 2 Weekly Law Reports 116 (1955); 1 All.E.R.
31.
The case involved seven Polish sailors who seized control of a trawler and steered to an English port where they sought asylum.
Warrants were issued in Warsaw charging them with extraditable offenses.
The English court held that the seamen had proved to the satisfaction of the court that the requests for extradition had in fact been made with a view to trying or punishing them for an offense of a political character.
6 It was stated in the case: American cases 7 have more or less adopted language used in Castioni.
In the instant case we are dealing with a so-called relative political offense in that a common crime is said to be connected with a political act.
8 Other than the fact that Artukovic is called a "war criminal" by appellant, we note the following facts as showing a marked degree of connection between the alleged murders and a political element.
Appellee Artukovic is not charged with personally murdering anyone, rather it is charged that the murders were carried out on his "orders."
9 The Indictment accuses Artukovic "for having, in the course of 1941 and 1942, when Yugoslavia was occupied by German and Italian troops, issued orders based on criminal motives, hatred and the desire for power, to members of bands of which he was one of the leaders, to carry out mass slaughters of the peaceful civilian population of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
*" The Indictment states (in the Explanation of the Indictment) that the "accused Artukovic was the so-called Minister of the Interior in the 'Cabinet' of Ante Pavelic."
It is also stated that "Direction and control over the concentration camps, over the internment of people in the camps and over the treatment (Point 8 of the Indictment) was discharged, along with Pavelic, by the accused Artukovic, who was the so-called Minister of the Interior in Pavelic's 'Cabinet' at that time.
This has been established through numerous so-called legal and other kinds of orders which were prepared by the accused Artukovic himself, which he issued and signed alone or together with Pavelic.
*" It is also stated that Artukovic and Pavelic prescribed a "so-called legal order on August 16, 1941, on the 'Ustasha Security Service' which under the 'Legal Order' of November 25, 1941 controlled concentration camps and passed decisions on deportations to these camps."
The Indictment further states that the "crimes committed by the accused Artukovic simultaneously constitute great international crimes foreseen by International Law, specifically Law No. X of the Central Council for Germany and by Article 6 of the Statute of the International Military Tribunal *" The amended Complaint alleges over 200,000 murders or participations in murders.
The District Court properly took judicial notice of the fact that Ante Pavelic was the Premier of Croatia during World War II, and of the fact that various factions representing different theories of government were struggling for power during this period in Croatia.
We conclude that the finding by the District Court that the offenses for which the surrender of Artukovic was sought were offenses of a political character was correct.
We now consider the question whether because the offenses are also called "war crimes" they have lost their character as "political offenses" within the meaning of the treaty.
Appellant argues that "war crimes" are crimes for which extradition is to be granted within the meaning of international acts to which the United States is a party.
It is argued by recent legal writers that the "barbarity and atrocity of the crimes [crimes against the law of war and crimes against humanity] committed weigh so heavily upon the common crime element that the political act has practically ceased to exist and, therefore, that the extradition of the offender is the only justifiable course of action."
10 Appellant in essence argues that by virtue of resolutions 11 taken in 1946 and 1947 by the United Nations General Assembly as to the surrender of alleged war criminals, it is incumbent on this Court to hold that Artukovic is charged with an offense which is extraditable.
We have examined the various United Nations Resolutions and their background and have concluded that they have not sufficient force of law to modify long standing judicial interpretations of similar treaty provisions.
Perhaps changes should be made as to such treaties.
A well-known authority 12 recently commented on the point as follows: Other points raised by the appellant we need not consider based on our decision.
Judgment affirmed.
