 TUTTLE , Circuit Judge.
This is an appeal from a judgment in an action to review a determination of the Board of Immigration Appeals by which the district court held that appellant is subject to deportation and is statutorily ineligible for waiver of deportation.
The undisputed facts are that appellant is an alien, a native and a citizen of Greece, who last entered the United States on March 11, 1947, as a seaman on a Certificate of Admission permitting a stay of not over 29 days; no extension has ever been applied for or granted.
In 1952 appellant registered for the first and only time under the provisions of the Alien Registration Act, 1 and he has since failed to file the annual registration required by 8 U.S.C.A. 1305 .
The Special Inquiry Officer determined, and the Board of Immigration Appeals and the district court agreed, and appellant does not dispute, that the failure to register was willful and without reasonable excuse.
Appellant is thus deportable both as a nonimmigrant who has failed to comply with the conditions of that status, 8 U.S.C.A. 1251(a) (9) , and as an alien who has failed to comply with the provisions of the Alien Registration Act, 8 U.S.C.A. 1251(a) (5) .
The only issue is whether appellant's application for suspension of deportation should be treated as falling under section 1254(a) (1) of the Title, under which he could qualify for discretionary relief by the Attorney General, 2 or under section 1254(a) (5) , under which he cannot qualify.
3 Appellant contends that since he qualifies under one category established by section 1254(a) his application for suspension should be considered under that paragraph, even though he is ineligible under another category whose provisions are applicable to his situation but whose requirements he fails to meet.
In particular, appellant argues that Congress, in drafting the 1952 Act, had wished to preserve the right of all aliens whose last entry had occurred before June 27, 1950, (two years prior to date of enactment of the Act) to apply for suspension of deportation under substantially the provisions and standards of the pre-1952 law, as long as they filed their application at any time before December 31, 1957 (five years after the effective date of the chapter).
To support this proposition he points to the provisions of the Act, in which, as detailed below, a generally clear distinction is indeed made, in several paragraphs listed in the disjunctive, between those aliens who entered before and those who entered on or after June 27, 1950; in addition he refers us to the report of the Senate Judiciary Committee which first considered these provisions, which stated: 4 and then continued with its recommendations for the altered provisions of the new law.
The Government argues, in effect, that the provisions are meant to be mutually exclusive, and that since paragraph (5) refers specifically to the situation of the appellant, i. e. to one who violated the Alien Registration Act, while paragraph (1) only refers generally to aliens "deportable under any law of the United States," under the usual rules of statutory construction he must be treated as a member of the "particular class" into which he falls.
Baltimore National Bank v. State Tax Commission of Maryland , 297 U.S. 209, 215 , 56 S.Ct. 417 , 80 L.Ed. 586 ; 82 C.J.S.
Statutes 347 b. The question raised is unfortunately not as easily resolved as each of the parties would have it; as in many cases under this Act the courts must resort to a close study of the complex interrelation of the several provisions of both the present and the former law, both internally and, as required by the frequent crossreferences, with each other.
On this particular narrow issue there appear to be no cases to guide us 5 nor has any legislative history more helpful than the general language quoted above been called to our attention.
To arrive at the most reasonable construction it will therefore be necessary to examine the entire background and pattern of the pertinent sections.
Prior to 1940 there was no statute under which relief from deportation could be granted, and in general such aid could only be secured by means of a private bill in Congress.
By the Alien Registration Act of 1940 the Attorney General was given discretionary authority to suspend deportation of aliens not guilty of any major misbehavior, defined by excluding from the relief provision aliens who fell into any of a number of listed categories of undesirables, upon a showing of good moral character for five years and of the threat of serious economic detriment to any legally resident, close relative of the alien, unless Congress passed a concurrent resolution disapproving of such a suspension.
54 Stat. 671 , 8 U.S.C. 155 (c) , (d) (1946 ed.).
In 1948 the provision was changed by also permitting the suspension of deportation of aliens not in the excluded categories upon a mere showing of seven years residence (regardless of considerations of hardship to them or to their families), but requiring that in all cases of suspension Congress pass an affirmative concurrent resolution approving the stay.
62 Stat. 1206 , 8 U.S.C. 155(c) (1946 ed., Supp. 11, 1949).
The 1952 Act completely recast the former suspension provisions.
Five general categories of aliens were designated by successive paragraphs of 8 U.S.C.A. 1254(a) : (1) those whose "offense" did not disqualify them for suspension under the former Act (referred to as 19(d) of the Immigration Act of 1917, as amended), who had entered the United States, properly or improperly, before June 27, 1950, and who prior to their application for suspension of deportation had resided here for at least seven years and had maintained a good moral character; (2) those whose deportability arises from some circumstance existing at or before their entry, but not involving any major misbehavior or improper entry (defined by excluding those aliens falling into category (4)), whose entry was subsequent to June 26, 1950, and who have maintained at least five years of residence with good moral character up to the time of application; (3) those whose situation is similar to that of category (2) except that their deportability arises from circumstances after entry; (4) those whose deportability arises either from an improper entry or from major misbehavior before entry, who entered after June 26, 1950, and who have maintained at least ten years of residence with good moral character; (5) those whose deportability arises either from overstaying their permitted time in the United States or who belong in one of eleven enumerated categories of major undesirables (based generally on post-entry activities), regardless of their date of entry, who have maintained at least ten years of residence with good moral character.
In all categories suspension may only be effected if deportation would "result in exceptional and extremely unusual hardship" to the alien or to a legally resident close relative.
6 Also, in suspensions under paragraphs (1) (3) the relief may be granted unless disapproved by a concurrent resolution of Congress, while under paragraphs (4) and (5) an affirmative resolution is required to make the stay permanent.
In general the pattern of the new Act is thus clear: it continues in general terms and for a limited period the category of those who might seek suspension of deportation under the former Act, provided the alien entered before June 27, 1950, substituting, however, a uniform seven years residence with good moral character requirement and the harsher "hardship" provision of the new Act, and restoring the pre-1948 requirement of a mere absence of congressional disapproval.
In general aliens in similar circumstances who entered after June 26, 1950, can now qualify for suspension after five years of residence under the provisions of paragraphs (2) and (3) , except if their entry was improper, in which case they fall under the ten year requirement of paragraph (4) , or if their deportability arises by reason of failure to register ( 1251(a) (5) ) or because of violation of war emergency laws ( 1251(a) (17) ) in which case the ten year requirement of paragraph (5) applies.
In addition, practically all aliens whose deportation could not have been suspended at all under the former Act may now qualify after ten years under the provisions of paragraphs (4) and (5) .
Also the racial eligibility provision of the former Acts has been removed, but additional restrictions are imposed on citizens of contiguous countries.
It thus appears that Congress very thoroughly reshaped the statute, easing the requirements somewhat by reducing the qualifying time in some instances, eliminating the need for positive congressional approval in many situations, and in making it possible for some persons to qualify for deportation after ten years of reputable residence and subject to positive congressional approval who could not have qualified at all under the former law; on the other hand requirements were made more severe in other ways, by adopting a rather stricter "hardship" test and by changing the five or seven year requirement to ten for those guilty of certain offenses--including the failure to register under the Alien Registration Act.
Even with respect to the pre-June 27, 1950, category changes were made, including the imposition of the uniform seven years residence with good moral character, the new "hardship" clause, and the December 31, 1957, terminal date for application.
It cannot be said that the provisions as a whole are meant to be generally more or less restrictive than the former ones; all that can be said is that they appear to be more selectively drawn.
Nor can it be said that there was an apparent congressional intent to preserve inviolate all the rights under the former statutes of the pre-June 27, 1950, category.
It should also be noted that for the most part the categories are mutually exclusive.
7 Apparently practically the only clear breakdown in that separation involves the very provision here under consideration: deportability due to failure to register, 8 U.S.C.A. 1251(a) (5) , which was not an offense precluding suspension of deportation under the former Act, and which thus does not explicitly preclude the applicability of paragraph (1) relief under the present Act, but which is specifically listed as included in category (5).
It is certainly clear that Congress in 1952 took a much more serious view of failure to register than had former legislatures; it is one of the few provisions in which suspension of deportation was made distinctly more difficult (at least for aliens who entered after June 26, 1950) than it had been under the former law, and no liberalizing features have been added.
The principal other offense for which this is true is the offense of illegal entry, 1251(a) (2) , which, like failing to register, makes control over the alien more difficult and simplifies the offender's problem of avoiding investigation during the qualifying period.
In addition aliens who aid others to enter illegally, 1251(a) (13) , are entirely precluded from seeking suspension of deportation, thus suggesting that Congress intended to penalize through the immigration laws those who violated them.
In the case of improper entry the Act is clear that only entries subsequent to June 26, 1950, shall be subject to the more severe suspension requirements, for the applicable paragraph is (4) , which includes the cut-off restriction, rather than (5) , which does not.
For failing to register the more severe conditions clearly apply to aliens entering after June 26, 1950, for they are not covered at all by paragraph (1) .
It would therefore be highly anomalous for Congress, having expressed the more severe view it now takes of the offense of failure to register, to permit certain persons who violate the registration provisions of the new Act after its passage (e. g., as here, in 1953 and 1954) to receive more consideration than others who are guilty of precisely the same omission at precisely the same time, merely because the former entered the United States earlier than the latter.
Such might be the result where both the entry and the offense occurred before the enactment of the new Act (or before the cut-off date two years earlier), but in the present situation, where the new Act gave notice of the more severe consequences of a failure to comply and compliance was still not forthcoming, such a construction is not reasonable.
Congress should not be thought to have created two categories of aliens, distinguishable only by their date of entry, whose improper behavior carries different consequences.
In view of the above, and in view also of the apparent congressional intent to make the five categories of 1254(a) mutually exclusive, we must hold that the explicit inclusion in category (5) of deportability for failure to register implicitly excludes it from category (1).
The judgment of the district court is affirmed.
