 PER CURIAM.
We consolidated appeals from orders of the District Court which had (1) refused to give appellant (plaintiff) additional time within which to obtain and produce for inspection records of the banking house, H. Sturzenegger & Cie of Basle, Switzerland, not previously obtained and tendered to the appellees (Government) and (2) dismissed plaintiff's complaint with prejudice.
Various aspects of the litigation were earlier treated by the District Court, 1 and by us. 2 We provided that dismissal of the complaint with prejudice was not to become effective until six months after the receipt by the District Court of our mandate, and not then, if within that period discovery had been provided as ordered.
Our mandate was received by the District Court January 24, 1956, and by July 24, 1956, plaintiff had obtained and assembled in Washington many thousands of Sturzenegger records.
Plaintiff sought an extension of time from the District Court and submitted a proposed discovery plan which had been approved by the Swiss Government.
It was contemplated that full discovery was to be achieved by permitting an independent investigator, a neutral, to inspect the Sturzenegger files to ascertain which of certain unknown remaining records were relevant.
It was further contemplated that production of such records could be assured by letters rogatory or by copying.
The District Court declined further relief, and on August 3, 1956, plaintiff's complaint was dismissed with prejudice and on August 21, 1956, plaintiff's motion to vacate the order of dismissal was denied.
That plaintiff and its counsel patiently and diligently sought to achieve compliance with the District Court's discovery order is not to be doubted.
There is no question of lack of diligence, indeed plaintiff is quite right in its suggestion that delays in the disposition of the case were "inherent in its nature."
Basically, however, the problem was summed up adequately by Chief Judge Laws, thus: [**150] No more need be said.
Plaintiff's American assets were seized in the United States as enemy owned property and title, pursuant to law, was vested in the Alien Property Custodian and his successor, the Attorney General.
Plaintiff sought recovery of the vested assets on the premise that it is not and was not an enemy or an ally of an enemy.
In the course of the ascertainment of the plaintiff's right, resort having been had to our courts, the papers in question became relevant.
We concluded that they are not privileged, and except for the laws and actions of the Swiss Government, there is no doubt they could and would have been amenable to the discovery which our courts ordered under rules deemed essential and conducive to the proper and orderly administration of justice in a court of the United States.
Since we have held that it was not fundamentally unfair or arbitrary to require the plaintiff to comply with an order designed to elicit the truth, or, failing compliance, to dismiss the action, the District Court's orders were within its powers.
There is no error.
Affirmed.
