 BARNES , Circuit Judge.
This is a private action for treble damages under the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C.A, 1-7, 15.
Appellants are Sunkist Growers, Inc., a corporation (hereinafter referred to as Sunkist) and The Exchange Orange Products Company, a corporation (hereinafter referred to as Exchange Orange or EOP).
Appellees are Winckler & Smith Citrus Products Co., a corporation and Ronald Walker, as trustee of Winckler & Smith (hereinafter referred to as Winckler or Trustee).
The action was tried in the district court before a jury, which returned a verdict of $500,000.
This was trebled to $1,500,000, and from that there was deducted the $2,500 originally paid in compromise by one-time defendant TreeSweet.
There were added attorneys' fees fixed at $195,000, and costs.
Timely appeal was filed in this Court.
After argument, but before decision, one of the judges hearing this appeal died.
It was thereupon set down for hearing a second time, was heard, and held pending the determination by the Supreme Court of Maryland and Virginia Milk Producers Ass'n v. United States , 1960, 362 U.S. 458 , 80 S.Ct. 847 , 4 L.Ed.2d 880 , having to do with the antitrust exemptions of agricultural marketing cooperatives.
I Parties Sunkist Growers, Inc., a corporation, was sued in the district court originally under its former name, California Fruit Growers Exchange.
It is and has been a nonprofit agricultural cooperative marketing association.
The second defendant, The Exchange Orange Products Company, a corporation, was sued in the court below as The Exchange Orange Products Company.
At all times it was a wholly owned subsidiary of Sunkist.
Together with Sunkist and Exchange Orange, there was originally named as a defendant Exchange Lemon Products Company, a corporation, sued originally as Exchange Lemon Products Company, a nonprofit corporation (hereinafter sometimes referred to as ELP or Exchange Lemon).
On motion of plaintiff, Exchange Lemon was dismissed with prejudice as a defendant, and was subsequently named as a co-conspirator in plaintiff's second amended complaint filed February 2, 1956, to conform to proof.
TreeSweet Products Company, a corporation (hereinafter referred to as TreeSweet) was an original defendant, but settled for $2,500, and was dismissed as a defendant.
In the said second amended complaint, it was referred to as a co-conspirator.
E. A. Silzle Corporation, a corporation (hereinafter referred to as Silzle) was never a defendant but was named a co-conspirator in both plaintiffs' first and second amended complaints.
Appellee Ronald Walker is trustee of the estate of Winckler & Smith Products Co. in those proceedings pending in the district court below for its reorganization under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Laws, 11 U.S.C.A. 501 et seq., being Number 538860-C of the records of said court.
Mr. Walker was appointed March 26th, 1952 as such trustee, and by order made May 9, 1952 he was permitted to and did intervene in this case. Mr. Walker is sometimes referred to herein as appellee, Walker, Trustee, or as Intervenor.
Thus on this appeal there are two appellants, Sunkist and EOP, and two appellees, the Winckler corporation and the Trustee.
II The Theory of the Case Appellees allege in their first cause of action ( Section 1 of the Sherman Act; 15 U.S.C.A. 1 ), and appellants deny, that appellants have conspired and entered into contracts which had the purpose and effect of unreasonably restraining interstate commerce in canned California citrus fruit juice, particularly single strength orange juice.
This was proved, say appellees, by "six acts."
These were: (a) In the 1950-1951 canning season ELP processed 28,812 tons of oranges for EOP at cost, and without profit to ELP.
Appellants admit this.
(b) During the same period, EOP processed 1,740 tons of lemons for ELP on the same basis.
Appellants admit this.
(c) Sunkist and EOP agreed to establish and maintain the price of by-product oranges available to independent processors like appellees at a level making it impossible for processors like appellees to purchase oranges from EOP, or any other source, at a price or under any other arrangement enabling appellees and other processors to produce and sell canned natural orange juice and frozen concentrate juice at prices competitive with prices charged by appellants and their favored customers, TreeSweet and Silzle.
Appellants deny these allegations.
(d) Under a contract effective July 23, 1951, between EOP and TreeSweet, TreeSweet received oranges from EOP, made single strength orange juice for EOP at cost and without profit to TreeSweet, and then bought the orange juice from EOP at Sunkist's then published price for single strength orange juice, less certain discounts not available to other customers, including appellees.
The purpose and effect of this contract allegedly was to enable TreeSweet to obtain orange juice at a cost which prevented appellees from competing with Sunkist or TreeSweet in the natural orange juice market.
Appellants admit the contract and supplying the oranges; deny the balance.
(e) Under a contract effective June 26, 1951, between EOP and Silzle, EOP furnished oranges to Silzle at $22.50 per ton, which was lower than the price to appellees or other processors.
The purpose and effect allegedly was to give Silzle oranges at a price with which appellees could not compete.
Appellants admit the contract and furnishing the oranges; deny the purpose or effect.
(f) EOP refused appellees a TreeSweet or Silzle type contract in 1951.
Appellants denied the refusal but admitted such a contract was not made.
Appellees allege that as a result of the above acts of appellants (listed in (a) to (f) above), and the monopoly control of Sunkist and Exchange Orange in 1951 over the amount and price of Valencia oranges available for processing, appellees were unable to process natural and frozen concentrate fruit juice in competition with Silzle, TreeSweet and Sunkist, which alleged facts eliminated appellees as a competitor, and forced the filing of proceedings under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act.
These allegations were added in the second amended complaint filed after the close of evidence.
They were materially different from those in the original complaint.
Appellants deny all these allegations.
Under the second cause of action (brought under 2 of the Sherman Act; 15 U.S.C.A. 2 ) it was charged that acts (a) to (f) above were done by appellants with monopoly control over citrus fruit markets in California and Arizona, and in so doing and in making such contracts, the parties named conspired to monopolize, and monopolized, single strength Valencia orange juice.
The second amended complaint additionally alleged contracts with independent processors Hyland-Stanford and Mission Dry, giving them first call on oranges and and processing to the exclusion of Independent Fruit Growers' Association and Morgan Ward, its selling agent, and one of the appellees' principal suppliers of by-product oranges.
Appellants plead five separate defenses: First : The second amended complaint, the amended complaint, and the original complaint each failed to state a claim upon which relief could be granted.
Second : The applicable statute of limitations, Section 338(1) of the Code of Civil Procedure of California, bars all causes of action asserted in the second amended complaint and in the amended complaint.
Third : All causes of action alleged in the second amended complaint and the amended complaint are barred by the laches of appellees, in that appellees are barred by laches and estopped from relying upon any acts involving Silzle, as the Silzle contract was disclosed to appellees on March 14, 1952, and appellees did not amend their complaint to include this contract until December 15, 1954, and such a long delay was prejudicial to appellants.
Fourth : Appellees are barred by laches and estopped from relying on the Hyland-Stanford and Mission Dry contracts first referred to in the second amended complaint, as these contracts were disclosed to appellees on November 9, 1955, and appellees did not amend their complaint to refer to the Hyland-Stanford contract until January 31, 1956 (during the last few days of the trial) or to the Mission Dry contract until February 4, 1956 (after all the evidence was in), and such long delay was prejudicial to appellants.
Fifth : Appellees are barred by laches and estopped from alleging the new matters in the last paragraph of III(f) of the first cause of action (referred to in (f) above), because appellees knew of such matters through discovery long before trial and did not seek to amend its complaint to refer thereto until January 31, 1956, to appellants' surprise and prejudice, and such long delay was prejudicial to appellants.
This is a long record before us, and the matter is as complicated, both factually and legally, as is most antitrust litigation.
We attempt to summarize the appellees' position by first stating what it was not.
It was not appellees' position that appellants did not have certain exemptions from the antitrust laws under the Clayton and Capper-Volstead Acts, 15 U.S.C.A. 12 et seq.
; 7 U.S.C.A. 291 , 292, nor that they could not, as agriculturists, join together to make marketing agreements.
It was appellees' position that such exemptions so granted were not absolute.
Appellants could monopolize by-product oranges or single strength orange juice, either in the national market or in the California-Arizona area market, provided they achieved their monopoly position lawfully.
Appellants could set any price they desired for their juice.
They could make any "true" processing contracts with TreeSweet and Silzle, or with anyone else.
They could refuse to make oranges available to appellees, if activated by "proper" business motives, as distinguished from "improper" motives.
Appellees insist, however, that appellants having monopolized by-product oranges from which single strength juice was made, and by such monopolization having control over the amount of by-product oranges available to independent contractors; having further set a price of $40.00 per ton for such oranges (a price alleged to have been one at which no independent processor could buy, process and compete with Sunkist in the single strength juice market); having at the same time (i. e., during the one year of 1951, here involved) made oranges available to TreeSweet and Silzle, competitors of appellees, under so-called "processing" contracts which were more than that because they permitted the competitors to secure oranges at a price substantially lower than $40.00 per ton; the appellants were thus guilty of a conspiracy or combination unauthorized by antitrust law, even as modified by the limited agricultural marketing exemptions.
Under this theory of the case, the court sought to leave with the jury several questions of fact , namely: (1) Whether appellants had a legal monopoly of by-product oranges (and a resulting legal monopoly in single strength orange juice) in the California-Arizona market.
(2) Whether, if appellants did have such legal monopoly, it was used legally or illegally, in the particulars alleged.
(3) Whether such monopoly, if proved, gave appellants power and control over single strength orange fruit juice prices in the California-Arizona market.
(4) Whether such power and control, if proved, was used with the purpose or with the effect of eliminating a competitor in such market, i. e., eliminating appellees.
(5) Whether such power and control, if proved, was sufficient to enable appellants to determine the price or the terms and conditions under which by-product oranges were available in 1951 to independent processors, including appellees.
(6) Whether appellants had conspired with non-defendant co-conspirators to unlawfully use their market power and control to appellees' alleged consequent injury, or whether appellants had unlawfully used such monopoly power and control to appellees' injury.
(7) What damages were proximately caused by appellants' alleged actions.
With this explanation of our understanding of the theory of the case, we pass to: III Questions Raised On This Appeal There are four principal questions raised on this appeal: Was any violation of antitrust laws made out?
Was there error in instructing or refusing to instruct the jury?
Was there error in rulings on admission and rejection of evidence?
Was there error in affixing attorneys' fees of $195,000?
We shall discuss each in turn.
A. Was any violation of antitrust laws made out?
1.
The Exemption of Agricultural Co. operatives Generally There can be no conclusion as to the first error alleged until we determine the nature and extent of the exemption granted by law to agricultural cooperatives.
This was raised by the pleadings and particularly, appellants' first and separate defense.
Sunkist was a nonprofit agricultural cooperative marketing association.
So was EOP, a subsidiary of Sunkist.
So was ELP, an association of growers who were likewise members of Sunkist.
The exemption claimed by appellants rests within 6 of the Clayton Act and 1 of the Capper-Volstead Act.
Section 6 of the Clayton Act ( 38 Stat. 731 (1914), 15 U.S.C.A. 17 ) reads as follows: Section 1 of the Capper-Volstead Act ( 42 Stat. 388 (1922), 7 U.S.C.A. 291 ) reads in material part as follows: The legislative history of the Clayton and Capper-Volstead Acts makes it clear that farmers (including orange growers) were granted the right to combine, contract and conspire together in restraint of trade in associations which, without the exemptions, would have violated the Sherman Act.
Its purpose was to permit the farmers to compete with large corporations.
1 But by its terms, the exemption was not absolute--the individuals were permitted to associate in groups and the associations were permitted specifically to do but two things: arrange "marketing agencies in common" and contract and agree with their members participating, if necessary to effect such purposes.
As the most recent Supreme Court decision states: 6 legitimate objects Maryland and Virginia Milk Producers Ass'n v. United States supra 362 U.S. at pages 465-466 80 S.Ct. at page 852 There have been few cases dealing with the Capper-Volstead Act exemptions.
2 At the time this case was tried in the district court, United States v. Borden Co. , 1939, 308 U.S. 188 , 60 S.Ct. 182 , 84 L.Ed. 181 , was the leading case.
It held that Capper-Volstead does not wholly exempt cooperatives, and particularly those conspiring with nonexempt legal entities.
This same principle has been applied to labor unions, which have no absolute exemption from antitrust laws.
Allen Bradley Co. v. Local Union No. 3, etc. , 1945, 325 U.S. 797, 805 , 65 S.Ct. 1533 , 89 L.Ed. 1939 .
The Clayton Act, 6 , applied only to nonstock agricultural cooperatives.
Section 1 of the Capper-Volstead Act extended the same exemption to capital stock agricultural cooperatives.
Maryland and Virginia Milk Producers Ass'n v. United States supra 362 U.S. at page 466 80 S.Ct. at page 853 And in conclusion, Mr. Justice Black stated: Id 362 U.S. at page 467 80 S.Ct. at page 854 We conclude, therefore, that no blanket exemption is created by either Section 6 of the Clayton Act or Section 1 of the Capper-Volstead Act which permits an agricultural cooperative to either unlawfully monopolize, or attempt to monopolize, under Section 2 of the Sherman Act, nor to do any acts to restrain or suppress competition, or which result in the restraint or suppression of competition prohibited by Section 1 of the Sherman Act, if such acts, in either event, fall within the prohibitions of the respective Sherman Act sections.
Thus the question as to whether there has been a violation of the antitrust laws is ordinarily one to properly go to the jury.
We next consider if there was proof of the violation of antitrust laws, despite the limited exemption the appellant Sunkist enjoys, sufficient to make out a question of fact for the jury.
To pass upon this, we must consider certain of the facts of this case in detail in an attempt to establish and define the product and the pertinent market with which we are here concerned.
2.
The Product Involved As the case went to the jury, the defendants Sunkist and EOP were charged, as appellees' counsel put it on oral argument, with "a combination and conspiracy [under Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act] to restrain trade in California citrus juices and to monopolize the production, processing and sale of those juices, primarily, insofar as appellee is concerned, single strength juices."
The contracts charged to be in restraint of trade were allegedly made with the purpose of eliminating a competitor, the appellees.
In the first cause of action contained in appellees' amended complaint, the relevant market was designated as "canned citrus fruit juice, produced and processed in the State of California, and marketed throughout the United States."
Thus originally all citrus fruit juice was involved; orange, lemon and grapefruit.
By the amendment to the complaint to conform to evidence, the relevant market was restricted to "single strength Valencia [orange] juice."
In that respect it was alleged (again to conform to proof) that: 3.
The Relevant Market The record discloses that entirely apart from the marketing of citrus fruit itself as the end product, an important consideration in the citrus industry is the utilization of by-products, such as oils from the peel, peel and pulp for cattle feed, and the juices themselves.
Juices are divided in the trade into three categories: (1) The so-called "hot concentrate juice" (the syrup base for mixed citrus drinks); (2) the cold, or so-called "frozen concentrate," which is used to prepare the canned or frozen juice; and (3) the so-called "single strength," being the natural and untreated juice of the orange.
Oranges for fruit juice purposes are valued and sold by the extent of their sugar content.
Valencia oranges are apparently particularly valued for their high sugar content, and perhaps for their time of arrival on the market (although this advantage, of course, partially disappears when juices are kept from one season to the next).
Oranges are grown primarily in three states--California, Arizona and Florida.
Oranges from both East and West Coasts compete in the national markets, both in fresh oranges and by-products.
Due to the freight rates, California and Arizona oranges and juices are sold on a two-price structure--cheaper in the East, where Florida is closer and the freight costs on Florida juice lower, and more expensive in the West, where transportation from Florida costs more.
We conclude the relevant market area here involved was the California-Arizona area.
4.
Competition and Prices in the Product Involved in the Relevant Market During the year 1951, Sunkist controlled approximately seventy per cent of the total by-product Valencia orange market in the California-Arizona area, or 318,000 tons of by-product oranges.
The remaining thirty per cent of by-product Valencia oranges grown in California-Arizona came from scattered growers such as: (a) Independent Citrus Growers & Shippers Association, a grower cooperative (Morgan Ward, selling agent); (b) Mutual Orange Distributors of Anaheim, California, a grower cooperative; (c) American Fruit Growers Company, an independent grower, packer and shipper; (d) Paramount Citrus Association, a corporation organized by various growers for profit; (e) an unorganized group of individual growers, members of (a) above, who did not desire to market through Morgan Ward.
In 1951 in the California-Arizona area, there were three principal independent processors of by-product oranges: Winckler & Smith, TreeSweet and Silzle.
These had no growers to supply them oranges, so they were required to buy their by-product oranges from the aforementioned five "independent" groups of growers, or from Sunkist or its subsidiary EOP, or (as to a very small amount of fruit) from even "more independent" growers than the five independents above mentioned.
Mutual, American and Paramount, mentioned in (b), (c) and (d) above, had their own processing facilities, and by 1951 were processing all their own fruit, so had none to sell to independent processors.
"Independent Citrus Growers & Shippers Association" had no processing facilities of its own and no sales organization.
It therefore sold to independent processors.
Whether these independent processors would buy by-product oranges to process into single strength juice depended, obviously, on the price they might be forced to pay for the oranges, and the price they might get for the canned or bottled single strength juice.
If the processors could see no chance to make a profit, then the growers' representatives were forced to make processing contracts with hired processors in order to realize anything on their by-product oranges, and to prevent a loss.
There is no question but that Sunkist was the "leader" on pricing within the industry.
In 1951 Sunkist admittedly set a price of $40.00 per ton on oranges containing 120 pounds of "soluble solids."
(This is a term descriptive of what is left from an orange when water is extracted.
It includes sugars, citric acid, and other solids.
The average Valencia orange contains 120 pounds of soluble solids per ton of oranges.)
In 1951, "Independent Citrus Growers & Shippers Association" made a contract with Case-Swayne Co., Incorporated, an independent processor with no grower's supply, to process its by-product oranges into canned single strength juice, selling it under the Case-Swayne label, paying a net to Independent after deducting costs and a profit.
Independent had twelve to fifteen per cent of the total supply of by-product oranges in the California-Arizona market, or at least 53,000 tons.
On August 6, 1951, Morgan Ward for Independent, signed a processing contract with Winckler by which Ward agreed to deliver sixty tons of by-product oranges per day up to three hundred and sixty tons per week during the two-months' canning season for the production of frozen concentrate, but this did not produce single strength juice for Winckler to sell.
On August 17, 1951, he wrote to Morgan Ward (Exhibit AZ) in which he complained that he was not getting oranges for single strength juice.
He charged monopoly against Morgan Ward, and requested the latter to put the matter up to the By-Products Committee of the Independent Citrus Growers & Shippers Association.
This was done; the matter was left entirely to Morgan Ward's discretion.
That company still refused to sell oranges to Winckler for single strength processing.
Mr.
Ward's explanation is of interest.
He said: Winckler & Smith had been organized in 1946.
The amounts of by-product oranges it had purchased primarily from Sunkist and thereafter from others up to and including 1950 had been as follows: 1946--$1,000,000 worth 1947--Substantially less 1948--$200,000 worth 1949- 3,500 tons from Sunkist 10,500 tons from Morgan Ward 4,300 tons from other sourc es 1950- 1,300 tons from Sunkist 11,500 tons from Morgan Ward 4,100 tons from other sourc es During this same time, the tons of by-product oranges it had purchased from other sources, including Morgan Ward, had been increasing.
Thus it is not entirely accurate to state, as appellees do, that "appellee [Winckler & Smith] had been a regular customer of Sunkist in the purchase of by-product oranges since its organization in 1946," up to 1951.
In 1951 Sunkist started out the year with plans for pooling and disposing of all its by-product oranges.
The plan was to have EOP process the fruit, or to sell to other processors.
A schedule of prices was established at which fruit was to be sold at a separate price per ton for each pound of soluble solids per ton, ranging from sixty to one hundred and fifty pounds.
The price set on by-product Valencia oranges for 1951 ranged from $17.00 per ton for fruit having sixty pounds of soluble solids to $51.50 per ton for fruit having one hundred and fifty pounds of soluble solids.
Fruit having one hundred and twenty pounds of soluble solids was priced at $40.00 per ton, f. o. b. packing house.
This price was set by Sam H. Kelly, general manager of Sunkist's Los Angeles District Office.
The "Independent Association" followed the "lead" of Sunkist as to price.
Sunkist sold 46,000 tons of by-product oranges at this price to independent processors in 1951.
Apparently these oranges went into hot or frozen concentrate, as there was testimony such a price could be paid for such oranges so used in 1951 and produce a profit.
All other tonnage of Sunkist growers in 1951 was turned over to EOP for disposal.
This was the largest by-product Valencia orange crop ever handled by EOP.
It received 318,000 tons, processed 164,000 tons, and turned over 31,200 tons to ELP for processing at cost.
Exchange Orange thus had 122,800 additional tons of by-product oranges on hand.
It sold 19,747 tons to General Foods; 14,842 tons to Hyland-Stanford; 6,773 tons to Mission Dry; and 3,730 tons to Hart's for processing, or a total of 45,092 tons, under "custom packing" contracts, 3 into hot and frozen orange concentrate, but not for single strength juice.
It contracted with TreeSweet to process 24,148 tons into single strength juice, and Silzle to process 6,675 tons into single strength juice.
These were the contracts described as two of "six acts" which are the basis of appellees' complaint against Sunkist.
Ten thousand six hundred and thirty tons were sold to Mission Dry and 817 tons to Hyland-Stanford under a "deferred payment plan."
4 This left 35,000 tons, approximately, which were unsuitable for processing into juice products.
The years immediately before 1951 had seen a change in the use of by-product oranges.
In 1950 EOP processed eleven per cent of all frozen orange juice in the California-Arizona market.
In 1951 it processed fifty-eight per cent.
There was an increasing market for frozen orange juice.
Nevertheless, it was advisable and necessary to maintain the market in canned single strength juice.
There were four principal independent processors of canned single strength orange juice in the California-Arizona area, namely, TreeSweet, Silzle, Case-Swayne and appellee.
TreeSweet sold in the national market under its own label.
Silzle sold in the national market to private label buyers.
Case-Swayne sold largely in the California market under its own label "Case-Swayne."
Appellee sold in the national market under its "Anagold" label.
These four canners were in competition with each other, and each of them competed with Sunkist, in the sale of canned single strength orange juice in interstate commerce.
5.
Contracts in the 1951 Season Under the 1951 contract between Exchange Orange and TreeSweet, Exchange Orange made by-product oranges available to TreeSweet on a consignment basis in such quantities as Exchange Orange determined.
Exchange Orange agreed to pay TreeSweet its processing costs at specified rates and to pay the trucking costs of the fruit to TreeSweet's plant.
TreeSweet agreed to purchase the resultant juice at the Sunkist published selling price as of the date of purchase, less discounts and allowances of fifteen per cent plus an advertising allowance of seven cents per case. TreeSweet was not required to pay for the juice until it was sold.
The oil and peel were to be the property of Exchange Orange.
Under this contract TreeSweet processed 24,148 tons of by-product oranges into canned single strength orange juice, and sold it in the same interstate markets under the TreeSweet label in competition with similar juice sold by Sunkist and Silzle.
Finley (general manager of Exchange Orange) admitted that the Exchange Orange-TreeSweet contract guaranteed TreeSweet against any inventory losses and protected it against any reductions in the market price for canned juice during both the selling and carry-over seasons.
He admitted further that TreeSweet was guaranteed a profit under such contract.
He stated that the TreeSweet contract provided, in effect, that Exchange Orange was to be paid for its by-product oranges on the basis of the difference between the amount credited to TreeSweet for processing such fruit and the price which TreeSweet paid Exchange Orange for the processed juice.
The amount credited to TreeSweet for processing the 24,148 tons was $859,004.00, and the amount payable by TreeSweet for the juice processed therefrom was $1,204,031.41.
The difference between these two figures, to wit: $345,027.41, was the amount TreeSweet actually paid Exchange Orange for the 24,148 tons without the peel and oil by-products, or at the rate of almost $14.29 per ton.
Under this contract, EOP was to get the oil and peel or the proceeds therefrom.
The net return from the oil and peel was $10.81 per ton.
Therefore, the total amount EOP received for the by-product oranges processed under the TreeSweet contract was $25.10 per ton, namely, $14.29 actually paid by TreeSweet plus $10.81 for the oil and peel, or a price which was $19.12 less than the price for which the same quality of oranges were available for sale by Sunkist to other independent processors, including appellees.
Substantially the entire production of single strength orange juice under this contract was marketed under the TreeSweet label, and none of it was sold under the Sunkist label.
TreeSweet received an advertising allowance of seven cents per case. The usual purpose of an advertising allowance was to advertise the brand name of the concern granting such allowance, but in this case TreeSweet was permitted to make any use it saw fit of this advertising allowance.
The contract with TreeSweet was justified on the ground that TreeSweet had the facilities to process the juice and the sales organization to move the merchandise, and on the ground that it was important that some California single strength juice be on the market in 1951.
Sunkist had never mentioned to any independent processor until 1951 that this kind of arrangement was being made available to TreeSweet during the years 1947 to 1950, inclusive.
Silzle was engaged primarily in the business of processing and selling canned single strength orange juice.
It sold such juice primarily to private label buyers who sold to the same class of customers and in direct competition with canned single strength juice sold by Sunkist, TreeSweet and appellees.
Silzle had secured through the Bauer Fruit Company, a partnership composed of certain stockholders of Silzle, its fruit requirements.
Early in 1951, Kelly of Sunkist called Finley of EOP to secure the latter's approval to sell seventy-two tons of by-product oranges to Silzle at $27.00 per ton, including the oil and peel, in order to permit Silzle to meet a competitive situation then existing with Case-Swayne.
Finley approved the sale.
These oranges ranged from one hundred twenty-three to one hundred thirty-six pounds of soluble solids per ton which, under the Sunkist published selling price, were priced from $41.15 to $46.13 per ton.
A little later, under an oral arrangement, Finley let Silzle have five hundred and twenty-seven tons at $22.50 per ton, with Silzle keeping the oil and peel.
About the middle of June 1951, Finley contacted Thelma Silzle, president of Silzle, and offered her a contract similar to the TreeSweet contract, "and she was willing and wanted a contract."
The parties operated on an oral basis for most of the season.
The written contract was not signed until September 10, 1951, but by its terms it was to be effective from July 15, 1951 until the end of the season.
Under this contract Silzle processed 6,675 tons of by-product oranges into canned single strength orange juice, in addition to the seventy-two tons and five hundred and twenty-seven tons purchased earlier.
Silzle purchased the canned juice from EOP at the published Sunkist selling price at the time of purchase, less a discount of twelve and one-half per cent, plus an advertising allowance of seven cents per case. Silzle was credited with $215,602.10 for processing, and it paid EOP the difference between $215,602.10 and $306,263.65, Sunkist's selling price for the resultant juice.
Silzle thus paid $90,661.55 for the 6,675 tons of oranges exclusive of oil and peel, or at the rate of $13.58 per ton for by-product oranges.
The average soluble solids content of the oranges processed by Silzle under the 1951 contract was one hundred and twenty pounds of soluble solids per ton.
The Sunkist published selling price in 1951 for by-product oranges containing one hundred and twenty pounds of soluble solids per ton was $40.00 per ton.
Silzle thus acquired oranges from EOP, exclusive of the peel and oil content, at a price which was $26.42 per ton less than Sunkist's published selling price for oranges of the same quality.
Under this contract EOP was to get the value of the oil and peel, which amounted to $4.08 per ton.
Thus, the total amount EOP received for the by-product oranges processed under the Silzle contract was $17.66 per ton, namely, $13.58 per ton paid by Silzle, plus $4.08 per ton received for the oil and peel; or a price which was $22.34 per ton less than the price for which the same quality of oranges was available for sale by Sunkist to other independent processors, including appellees.
Unlike TreeSweet, Silzle was to pack juice only for current sales, not for inventory.
The terms of the various contracts are definite.
The contracts themselves are in evidence, and their execution is admitted by the pleadings.
The question permitted to go to the jury for determination was why Sunkist, in 1951, sold to one processor of "single strength Valencia orange juice" at one price, and failed to sell to another at any price.
If there was a refusal, was it a valid exercise of business judgment?
If so, it was lawful.
If it was a contract made to restrain competition or to fix prices, or, from a position of legal monopoly, was used illegally to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize, then appellees were entitled to recover damages proximately resulting from appellants' illegal acts.
Such questions obviously would ordinarily be questions of fact.
6.
The Alleged Refusal to Sell We have observed above, with respect to the "sixth act" of the "six acts" mentioned hereinbefore (II(f), supra ), that Sunkist denied any refusal to sell to appellees, but admitted no contract had been made with them.
The right to offer to sell or buy with perfect freedom, and to refuse to sell or buy with the same freedom, is supposedly a fundamental right sought to be protected by our competitive free enterprise system, and by the antitrust laws.
Its legality has been primarily established by what has been described as one of the ten leading cases in antitrust enforcement during its seventy year history: United States v. Colgate & Co. 1919, 250 U.S. 300 , 39 S.Ct. 465 , 63 L.Ed. 992 .
Speaking for a unanimous Court, Mr. Justice McReynolds there referred to the long recognized right of a manufacturer to exercise his independent discretion as to parties with whom he would deal.
5 But like so many generalizations, the "right" to exercise independent discretion cannot be taken as an absolute.
6 Mr. Justice Burton so stated in Lorain Journal Co. v. United States , 1951, 342 U.S. 143, 155 , 72 S.Ct. 181 , 96 L.Ed. 162 .
7 As Mr. Justice Holmes said: "But the word 'right' is one of the most deceptive of pitfalls; it is so easy to slip from a qualified meaning in the premise to an unqualified one in the conclusion."
8 We speak here only of decisions arrived at unilaterally, i. e. , the decisions of the single trader.
Any notion that such a right to select customers by joint action exists has been laid to rest. 9 Klor's has reduced this prospect to a mirage.
10 Confining our attention, then, to the decision made by a single trader irrespective of any statutory immunities, we ask whether the seller may select with whom he may deal.
Whether we label it a right or a privilege, both common law 11 and statute 12 have consistently adhered to the general theory expressed in Colgate.
Late Supreme Court cases confirm its existence, 13 but with certain definite limitations.
Text writers tell us this general "right" of choice of dealing may be violative of antitrust laws when it is "misused or abused," i. e. , "when there is proof of any one of a number of plus elements of liability that may taint the otherwise lawful individual refusal to sell."
14 "These plus elements," says Professor Oppenheim of Michigan, Section 5 15 But the decisions in past years, 16 as well as recent dicta by the Supreme Court, 17 warrant the generalization made by a writer with which this Court agrees: "[ An ] individual refusal to deal is preserved wherever it is reasonably ancillary to the effectuation of lawful marketing objectives ."
18 (Emphasis added.)
Entirely apart from a unilateral refusal to sell or deal, we have, charged herein as a conspiracy, the joint or concerted refusal.
"Concerted refusals by traders to deal with other traders" are equated to "group boycotts" by the most recent Supreme Court decision on the subject.
19 They "have long been held to be in the forbidden category."
20 The Court goes on: "They have not been saved by allegations that they were reasonable in the specific circumstances, nor by a failure to show that they 'fixed or regulated prices, parcelled out or limited production, or brought about a deterioration in quality.'
Fashion Originators' Guild v. Federal Trade Comm'n , 312 U.S. 457, 466, 467-468 [ 61 S.Ct. 703 , 85 L.Ed. 949 ].
Cf. United States v. Trenton Potteries Co. , 273 U.S. 392 [ 47 S.Ct. 377 , 71 L.Ed. 700 ].
Even when they operated to lower prices or temporarily to stimulate competition they were banned.
For, as this Court said in Kiefer-Stewart Co. v. Seagram & Sons , 340 U.S. 211, 213 [ 71 S.Ct. 259 , 95 L.Ed. 219 ], 'such agreements, no less than those to fix minimum prices, cripple the freedom of traders and thereby restrain their ability to sell in accordance with their own judgment.'
Cf. United States v. Patten , 226 U.S. 525, 542 [ 33 S.Ct. 141 , 57 L.Ed. 333 ]" Klor's, Inc. v. Broadway-Hale Stores , 1959, 359 U.S. 207 , at page 212, 79 S.Ct. 705 , at page 709.
Thus, in this case, we conclude the question as to whether there had been a concerted refusal to sell, as alleged by appellees, or an illegal unilateral refusal to sell, were questions of fact for the jury's determination.
The jury's verdict could have been based on either (1) the alleged illegal conspiracy and agreement to make contracts constituting a restraint of trade, or (2) the alleged illegal sole trader decision not to sell, made with an intent to illegally restrain trade or commerce, and implemented by other illegal means beyond the bare refusal, or (3) a similar unilateral decision not to sell, except at a fixed price, made from a monopoly position, with an intent or purpose to eliminate a competitor.
We cannot know which one or more of the theories stated were adopted by the jury in determining liability.
With this in mind, we must consider the evidence and the instructions given on this phase of the case.
If there exists in the record sufficient evidence to justify the action going to the jury on all three of these theories, and there were no errors in the instructions nor in the introduction of evidence, then we are bound by the jury's verdict on questions of fact.
We conclude that this was the theory under which the trial court permitted the case to go to the jury, as disclosed by the instructions themselves and the trial court's and counsel's comments, and discussion of them, at the trial.
We further conclude such submission to the jury was, in theory, correct.
B. Was there error in instructing or refusing to instruct the jury?
This was not an easy case in which to instruct the jury, and the instructions were necessarily many and involved.
In the instructions, the jury was first advised that a parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiary (Sunkist and EOP, respectively) "can be guilty of combining or conspiring together to violate the antitrust laws," i. e. , on the theory of an intracorporate conspiracy (e. g., Kiefer-Stewart Co. v. Joseph E. Seagram & Sons , 1951, 340 U.S. 211 , 71 S.Ct. 259 , 95 L.Ed. 219 ); that acts lawful in themselves can become unlawful "when part of an illegal scheme or plan, or when used to accomplish an illegal purpose" (e. g., Direct Sales Co. v. United States , 1943, 319 U.S. 703 , 63 S.Ct. 1265 , 87 L.Ed. 1674 ); that the acts charged against appellants under the first or restraint of trade cause of action need not have been shown to have been done with specific intent of elimination of competition in the juice market, if those acts "actually and necessarily resulted in the elimination of such competition," since everyone is presumed to intend the natural and probable results or consequences of his conduct.
People v. Renoso , 1952, 109 Cal.App.2d 793 , 241 P.2d 628 ; King v. Commonwealth , 1941, 285 Ky. 654 , 148 S.W.2d 1044 .
The court then referred to the "six acts" complained of which were claimed to be the proximate cause of appellees' damage (see II(a) to (f), supra ), and added: The court explained the defendants' defenses.
21 The court then instructed on monopoly power: And the court reinstructed on the same subject.
22 The court next instructed on the power to determine prices, or to exclude a competitor, and the lawful as well as the unlawful exercise of that power, and referred specifically to the processing contracts with TreeSweet and Silzle.
23 After advising the jury that direct evidence of a refusal to deal with Winckler on terms comparable to those offered to TreeSweet and Silzle was not necessary, and that EOP had a legal right to refuse to contract with Winckler unless such refusal was some part of a violation of antitrust laws, the court gave two instructions which he characterized as summing up "what is charged and what the plaintiff must prove."
It is these instructions, originally requested by defendants but modified by the court, which appellants vigorously attack as error.
They read: "(a) Defendants' No. 7 "(b) Defendants' No. 17A Under that charge appellants urge the jury could have found that the conspiracy consisted of only Sunkist or EOP and ELP.
Such a conspiracy, say appellants, involved only exempt cooperatives; that these instructions removed any exemption created by Capper-Volstead from the case entirely.
This error, say appellants, was compounded by the trial court in its attempt to clarify the charge after it had been given.
In this regard the court said: Appellants' argument first presupposes that agricultural cooperatives can combine to fix prices or eliminate competitors with immunity, otherwise Capper-Volstead means nothing.
With this position we do not agree.
First: We do not now understand (since the Milk Producers decision) that different agricultural cooperatives, combining together, are entitled to claim a total immunity for acts which they may lawfully do unilaterally, any more than individuals may claim for certain of their joint actions the same immunity under antitrust laws which would exist as to their several independent acts.
as a simple entity the legitimate objects Section 6 Maryland and Virginia Milk Producers Ass'n v. United States supra 362 U.S. at pages 465-466 80 S.Ct. at page 853 6 Id 362 U.S. at pages 466-467 80 S.Ct. at page 853 Second: We point out that the error as allegedly compounded by the loose language ("You may find that nobody conspired, or that some number less than the total conspired ."
(Emphasis added.))
was followed by a grudging approval of such instruction to the jury by both sides, just before the jury retired: Third: We think there exists support in the law for such instructions.
United States v. Timken Roller Bearing Co. , D.C.N.D.Ohio 1949, 83 F.Supp.
284 , affirmed 1951, 341 U.S. 593 , 71 S.Ct. 971 , 95 L.Ed. 1199 .
"[C]ommon ownership and control does not liberate corporations from the impact of the antitrust laws."
Kiefer-Stewart Co. v. Joseph Seagram & Sons , supra , 340 U.S. at page 215 , 71 S.Ct. at page 261 .
But cf: Report of the Attorney General's National Committee to Study the Antitrust Laws, pp.
30-36 (1955).
The entire instructions given cover fifty pages of the transcript.
The first ten pages and the last five were "stock instructions," applicable in any private conspiracy antitrust case where plaintiffs seek damages.
Ten pages of instructions cover the pleadings, the statutes involved, the appellants' denials and defenses, and an explanation of certain evidence received, to which no objection is made by appellants.
Appellants do however, in thirty-nine specifications object to almost every one of the remaining instructions, given at the request of appellees or on the court's own motion; and to four instructions which were requested by appellants but modified by the court.
Additionally, twenty-seven instructions proposed by appellants and rejected by the court, are alleged as error.
Thus, there are sixty-six alleged errors in the giving or refusing of instructions.
We find it unnecessary to go into each instruction individually.
Some are based on the theory of exemption which Maryland and Virginia Milk Producers Ass'n v. United States , supra , laid at rest, 24 or the "public injury" concept, buried by Klor's, Inc. v. Broadway-Hale Stores , supra .
25 Some have to do with definition of the relevant market hereinbefore discussed.
26 Some have to do with intra-corporate conspiracy.
27 Others were allegedly vague, ambiguous, or confusing, 28 or tended to "over-emphasize," 29 or be unnecessary or needless repetition, 30 or were immaterial, 31 or focused attention unnecessarily.
32 All the foregoing objections not hereinafter touched upon we hold invalid, or of such slight consequence that they do not constitute substantial error, and are not prejudicial.
Fed.R.Civ.P. 61 , 28 U.S.C.A. Appellees, of course, urge that the instructions must be "viewed in their entirety, rather than in isolated segments"; that "even if a single instruction is erroneous, it does not call for reversal if it is cured by a subsequent charge or by a consideration of the entire charge," citing Jesonis v. Oliver J. Olson & Co. , 9 Cir., 1956, 238 F.2d 307, 309 .
We agree with that general principle, yet if a substantial and prejudicial error is made in the giving of but one instruction, the verdict cannot stand.
We therefore consider in more detail certain other alleged errors which we feel merit discussion.
We refer to the following: (1) Was it error to instruct the jury as follows (alleged error 2(c)): The objection was because (a) it assumes monopoly power existed when its existence was a question of fact for the jury; (b) it is inapplicable to a conspiracy situation; (c) the only charge of misuse of monopoly power is by conspiracy; (d) it contains no reference to substantial restraint on interstate commerce; (e) it is silent on matter of intent.
This instruction is an exact quotation from United States v. Griffith , 1948, 334 U.S. 100, 107 , 68 S.Ct. 941 , 92 L.Ed. 1236 .
It is difficult for this Court to see how a monopolist can make any business decision without its involving and using its monopoly power, nor how it can make any sale or purchase (for example) at an advantageous price, without gaining some competitive advantage.
The statement is a broad one, but there were several other instructions given which modified and tempered its broadness, and which we must assume the jury understood and followed.
We find no merit to the objections urged, in view of the instructions taken as a whole and read together, as we are required to do on this appeal.
(2) Was it error to instruct the jury as follows (alleged error 2(r)): The objection was because (a) this is a question of fact for the jury; (b) which was taken away from the jury.
The question of whether substantial interstate commerce exists is a question of fact for the jury.
Marks Food Corp. v. Barbara Ann Baking Co. , decided December 28, 1959, as amended 9 Cir., 274 F.2d 934 .
Cf.
Beacon Theatres, Inc. v. Westover , 1959, 359 U.S. 500 , 79 S.Ct. 948 , 3 L.Ed.2d 988 .
But such question as to whether single strength orange juice was or was not a subject of restraint or monopoly was not, in our opinion taken away from the jury when the instructions are again read as a whole.
Even considered singly, the instruction stated the jury might , not that it must , find that single strength orange juice was the subject of restraint and monopoly in interstate commerce.
We hold there was no prejudicial error in this instruction.
(3) Was it error for the court to comment to the jury on the legal effect of Exhibits 84-A (plaintiff's re-organization plan, alleged error 2(aa)) and particularly the last paragraph of said comment: The objection was because (a) when the loss was to be taken was not a matter of law; (b) the comment discredited appellants' expert witness, Lynch.
In view of our position hereinafter taken as to damages, error or lack of it in this instruction is immaterial.
(4) Was it error to refuse appellants' six instructions, nine to fourteen, inclusive, instructing the jury the "six acts" complained of were not unlawful (alleged error 3(b))?
33 Each of these instructions referred to one of the six acts as being "nothing unlawful."
They then went on to say that unless the acts were "part of a conspiracy" made with the purpose and effect "of eliminating competitors, you will disregard such agreement or arrangement as being of no consequence in the case." Thus, in effect, the act "X" was lawful, unless you find it was done in unlawful conspiracy.
These instructions were confusing.
In view of all instructions given, and the nature of the case, we cannot hold the failure to give them, just as requested by defendants and appellants, constituted prejudicial error.
(5) Was it error to give the court's own instruction E (alleged error 2(y)) 34 because of the court's ruling excluding socalled "after-acquired" information with respect to appellees' alleged watering of juice?
This again can better be decided under a discussion of errors charged with respect to the introduction of evidence.
(6) Was it error to fail to instruct the jury as to necessity of " specific intent " to eliminate a competitor in the first cause of action, and to exclude appellee as a competitor in the second cause of action (alleged errors 3(m), 3(n))?
Appellants rely on United States v. Griffith , supra , and Times-Picayune Pub. Co. v. United States , 1953, 345 U.S. 594 , 73 S.Ct. 872 , 97 L.Ed. 1277 , in support of both of their proposed instructions (nos.
8, 18).
Swift & Co. v. United States 196 U.S. 375, 396 25 S.Ct. 276, 279 49 L.Ed. 518 Commonwealth v. Peaslee 177 Massachusetts, 267, 272 59 N.E. 55 2 United States v. Griffith supra 334 U.S. at pages 105-107 68 S.Ct. at page 944
