 WISDOM , Circuit Judge.
This controversy between Sun Oil Company, petitioner, and the Federal Trade Commission was generated by a price battle between two filling stations.
The issues relate to an alleged secondary-line price discrimination violative of the Robinson-Patman Act, 15 U.S.C.A. 13-13b , 21a and the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C.A. 41 et seq.
The key question is whether the defense of meeting competition in good faith is available to a supplier of gasoline when the supplier reduces the wholesale price of its gasoline to one of its filling stations engaged in a price battle at the consumer level with a station owned and operated by a competing supplier.
We hold for the petitioner.
Sun, a major oil company, refines, sells, and distributes gasoline throughout the United States.
It sells only one grade, Blue Sunoco.
In 1955 Gilbert McLean, one of Sun's thirty-eight retail dealers in Jacksonville, Florida, operated a filling station on the corner of 19th and Pearl streets in Jacksonville.
1 McLean was an independent contractor 2 but, like virtually all filling station operators, he sold gasoline purchased from only one supplier.
He bought gasoline from Sun Oil Company at 24.1 cents a gallon and sold it at 28.9 cents a gallon, then the prevailing price in the Jacksonville area for gasoline sold under a major supplier's brand.
Late in June 1955 Super Test Oil Company, a "non-major" 3 competitor of Sun's, opened a filling station across the street from McLean's station and began selling Super Test "regular" gasoline at 26.9 cents a gallon, then the prevailing price in Jacksonville for off-brand gasoline.
McLean testified that he was not hurt competitively as long as the differential between Sunoco and Super Test was two cents.
4 In August the Super Test station commenced a series of price cuts which were advertised on curb signs in front of the station and also in the newspapers.
August 27 Super Test dropped its posted price to 21.9 cents a gallon and August 28 dropped its price to 20.9 cents a gallon.
Then and later, whenever Super Test cut its prices McLean's sales declined substantially.
5 On a number of occasions, after reducing prices and gaining customers at McLean's expense, Super Test reestablished the customary two-cent price differential between its gas and Sunoco.
On at least one occasion Super Test maintained its low price for a week.
McLean and Super Test competed for gallonage with McLean always the loser.
He was a sitting duck.
Super Test, a vertically-integrated company 6 operating its own filling stations, could fix any retail price it pleased; McLean's price to the public was dependent on Sun's price to him.
The Examiner found that McLean made it clear to Sun that unless something could be done to meet the Super Test competition he would be forced out of business.
In the four months following Super Test's August "Grand Opening Special" McLean repeatedly asked Sun to reduce its wholesale tank-wagon price to him to a level that would allow Sunoco to compete with Super Test.
Sun carefully considered the situation, but for four months gave no price allowance to McLean.
The week-end of December 3, 1955 Super Test dropped its price to 21.9 cents a gallon.
A few days later the price went up again but after a short lull, with Sunoco still at 28.9 cents a gallon and Super Test at 26.9 cents a gallon, Super Test dropped its price to 24.9 cents a gallon.
This was the last straw.
McLean told Sun's regional manager that he was going out of business.
The manager reported to his home office that the situation was "desperate."
McLean informed the manager that to meet the competition he would have to post a price of 25.9 cents a gallon, but he could not afford to do so unless Sun gave him some relief.
He followed this with a request by letter for assistance that would enable him to sell at 1.8 cents a gallon above the posted dealer tank-wagon price of 24.1 cents a gallon.
7 December 27, 1955, Sun gave a discount to McLean of 1.7 cents a gallon.
8 Sun reached this decision after a study of gallonage records of its Jacksonville dealers and a report from its regional manager, familiar with the local situation, led it to conclude that only McLean was affected adversely by Super Test's price-cuts and a price allowance could be made to McLean to put Sunoco on a competitive level with Super Test at 19th and Pearl streets without adversely affecting any other Sun dealer in Jacksonville.
McLean cut his price three cents, to 25.9 cents, thereby absorbing 1.3 cents of the cut and reducing his normal gross profit from 4.8 cents to 3.5 cents.
Sun officials and McLean testified that there was no agreement or understanding to fix his retail price.
The Examiner found, however, that there was such an agreement.
The next day or one day thereafter Super Test reduced its price to 23.9 cents, reestablishing the 2-cent differential.
McLean maintained his price at 25.9 cents and kept it there until he went out of business.
Shortly after Sun reduced its tank-wagon price to McLean, other dealers in the Jacksonville area complained about not being given the same allowance.
9 Then, February 16, 1956, what had been a skirmish on the corner of 19th and Pearl became a full-scale price war in the Jacksonville area.
February 16 Super Test lowered its price to 22.9 cents for its regular gasoline and 25.9 cents for ethyl.
Then, after several major suppliers reduced their tank-wagon price, Sun dropped its tank-wagon price to all of its dealers in the area.
Sun's price allowance to McLean on December 27, 1955, came too late to help him.
February 18, 1956, he went out of business.
It was just as well; February 28, Super Test cut its regular gasoline to 19.9 cents and its ethyl to 22.9 cents.
September 28, 1956, the Federal Trade Commission filed a complaint against Sun charging it with having violated Section 2(a) of the Clayton Act, as amended by the Robinson-Patman Act, 10 by selling gasoline to McLean at a lower price than Sun charged other retail dealers in the same market area.
In defense, Sun asserted that the allowance to McLean was a good faith price reduction to meet competition, as permitted under Section 2(b) of the Robinson-Patman Act.
The complaint charged also that Sun violated Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act by conspiring with McLean to fix the retail price of Sunoco at McLean's station.
11 Sun denied this charge.
The Commission, adopting in full the Hearing Examiner's findings and conclusions, issued a broad order against Sun, directing it to cease and desist from discriminating in prices; the order applies not only to the sale of gasoline but also to the sale or distribution of any Sun products.
On Sun's petition to review and set aside the Commission's cease and desist order, we grant review and set aside the order.
I. The Commission contends that the defense of meeting competition is available to a seller only to meet direct competition for the business of his customer; that Sun could reduce its price to McLean only if Super Test offered gasoline to McLean at prices cheaper than Sunoco.
Here, however, so the Commission argues, the seller granted a price deduction to a favored dealer in order to help that dealer meet his retail competition.
12 Respect for a federal agency's unquestioned expertise does not require the Court to abdicate its judicial responsibility of construing the statute in the factual setting, strongly as counsel for the Commission argues that the weight to be given the facts and inferences is for the Commission.
13 We consider the Commission's construction of the Act unnecessarily narrow, unrealistic in terms of the facts of life in marketing gasoline, and inconsistent with the purposes of the Robinson-Patman Act.
Section 2(a) of the Robinson-Patman Act requires a seller to charge uniform prices to competing purchasers; proof of a price discrimination establishes a prima facie violation of Section 2(a) .
"[A] price discrimination within the meaning of that provision is merely a price difference."
Federal Trade Commission v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc. , 1960, 363 U.S. 536 , 80 S.Ct. 1267, 1274 , 4 L.Ed.2d 1385 .
However, as the Seventh Circuit pointed out in Anheuser-Busch on remand; the "Supreme Court, at page 553, 80 S.Ct. at page 1277 , disclaimed any flat prohibition of price differentials, recognizing that price differences constitute but one element of a 2(a) violation".
Anheuser-Busch, Inc. v. Federal Trade Commission , 1961, 289 F.2d 835, 836 .
Other parts of the statute allow price reductions which meet established criteria; the Act clearly "places emphasis on individual competitive situations".
14 Section 2(b) , on which Sun relies, allows a seller, in an individual competitive situation, to rebut a prima facie violation of Section 2(a) by showing that his "lower price was made in good faith to meet an equally low price of a competitor".
This proviso creates a substantive defense or "justification" that overrides the importance of any competitive injury and is absolute in nature.
15 The Section 2(b) defense raises a question of fact in each case as to whether the competition justifies the discrimination.
16 In holding the defense of meeting competition inapplicable, the Examiner and the Commission relied on Enterprise Industries, Inc. v. Texas Co. , D.C.Conn.1955, 136 F.Supp.
420, 421 , reversed on other grounds, 2 Cir., 1957, 240 F.2d 457 , cert.
den., 1957, 353 U.S. 965 , 77 S.Ct. 1049 , 1 L.Ed.2d 914 .
There is no other reported case directly in point.
17 In Enterprise the plaintiff operated a Texaco station selling gasoline purchased only from the defendant, Texas Company.
The plaintiff's station, near Hartford, Connecticut, on a well-traveled interstate highway, competed with other stations on the highway for the business of transient motorists, and it also competed for local business with nine stations off the highway selling Texaco.
Hartford gas stations were in a price war.
Texas Company, under the spur of declining sales, made price allowances to both local and highway Texaco dealers in the gas war area on condition that they match (but not undercut) the prices of their competitors selling rival brands.
The amount of the allowance depended on the prevailing neighborhood price.
The price in Hartford was lower than it was on the highway, so that Texas Company sold to its Hartford dealers at a lower price than it sold to the plaintiff.
The plaintiff sued for treble damages for price discrimination under Section 2(a) .
The district court rejected the meeting competition defense, holding that by granting a price differential between purchasers who competed with each other Texas Company violated Section 2(a) of the Robinson-Patman Act.
18 The district court stated: 136 F.Supp.
421 The district court was fully aware of the unreality of its approach, as is evident from the court's admission that it is a "fiction to speak of price competition at the oil company sale to the station level"; a filling station operator carrying a brand-name gasoline does not buy from several competing oil companies.
19 Inherent in the court's conclusion, and in the position of the Commission in this case, is the notion that although a supplier's product competes with the products of other suppliers for the motorists' trade a supplier is not in competition at the consumer level--even with a supplier-retailer; or, if he is, the Act ignores it.
Thus, if Super Test had attempted to increase its share of the market by offering its gasoline to McLean at a price under Sun's price, the Commission--so it says in regard to such an unusual situation--would have allowed Sun to meet the competition by reducing its prices to McLean.
Yet Super Test accomplishes the same purpose by undercutting McLean, and the Commission gives its blessing to the practice.
The Commission would have Sun sit and watch Super Test squeeze McLean out of business and take over Sunoco customers at 19th and Pearl.
A result so extreme mocks the principle, "The heart of our economic policy long has been faith in the value of competition"; "Congress did not seek by the Robinson-Patman Act either to abolish competition or so radically to curtail it that a seller would have no substantial right of self-defense against a price raid by a competitor".
Standard Oil Co. v. Federal Trade Commission , 340 U.S. 231, 248 , 71 S.Ct. 240, 249 , 95 L.Ed. 239 .
To our way of thinking, the court's approach in Enterprise, and the Commission's doctrinaire approach here are inconsistent with the view of gasoline marketing taken in the "Detroit" opinion, Standard Oil Company v. Federal Trade Commission , 1951, 340 U.S. 231 , 71 S.Ct. 240 , 95 L.Ed. 239 .
20 Standard Oil of Indiana, to meet a competitor's price, sold gasoline to four wholesalers, jobbers, in the Detroit area at a lower price than it charged its retail dealers.
The jobbers passed on this saving to their customers who were able to undercut retail dealers buying directly from Standard Oil.
The Commission took the position that Section 2(b) merely allowed rebuttal of a prima facie case, and was not a substantive justification of an otherwise unlawful price discrimination.
The Supreme Court held that Section 2(b) good faith defense was absolute even though a substantial lessening of competition might result, and remanded the case to allow Standard "to show that its lower price to each jobber was made in order to retain that jobber as a customer and in good faith to meet an equally low price offered by one or more [of its] competitors."
340 U.S. 231, 236 , 71 S.Ct. 240, 243 , 95 L.Ed. 239 .
The case is distinguishable on the facts, but the Court was acutely aware of the interaction of competition at various levels and recognized the validity of the defense even though the price differential would have an injurious effect on competition among the supplier's dealers and the dealers' purchasers: 340 U.S. 231, 250 71 S.Ct. 240, 250 95 L.Ed. 239 The "actual core of the defense," the Supreme Court stated, "still consists of the provision that whenever a lawful lower price of a competitor threatens to deprive a seller of a customer, the seller, to retain that customer, may in good faith meet that lower price."
340 U.S. 231, 242 , 71 S.Ct. 240, 245 .
Here, there is no doubt that Super Test's prices threatened "to deprive" Sun of McLean as a customer.
They did in fact deprive Sun of McLean as a customer.
And they deprived Sun of sales, through McLean, to the motoring public.
"Clearly, a seller's need for a lower price in response to a decrease in his sales is the same whether the decrease occurs because his purchasers switch to a price cutting competitor or because [his purchasers] are unable to protect their share of the retail market from distributors of a rival product."
21 In the instant case the Commission shows a proper solicitude for other Sun stations in McLean's sales territory.
Sun denied that these stations suffered any substantial loss of business attributable to McLean.
The Examiner found that four of these stations suffered a loss of trade, although they were located at distances of somewhat less than a mile to three and a half miles from 19th and Pearl streets and it would seem impossible to say whether they suffered a substantial loss of gallonage from Sun's price allowance to McLean or from Super Test's aggressive price cutting.
But if the good faith defense is to have meaning when applied to a supplier in competition with a supplier-retailer , it must be recognized that some dealers may suffer a diversion of business when the supplier lowers its price to meet competition.
This result is consistent with the theory of the Robinson-Patman Act in the light of national policy as expressed in the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C.A. 1 et seq.
The two statutes must be reconciled--if possible.
22 National policy favors consumers and the competitive process.
Consumers favor the benefits of competition--not the benefits of buying from particular merchants.
Thus, the Attorney General's National Committee to Study the Antitrust Laws, emphasizes that the Robinson-Patman Act focuses on "the vigor of competition in the market rather than hardship to individual businessmen.
Incidental hardships on individual businessmen in the normal course of commercial events can be checked by a price discrimination statute only at serious risk of stiffling the competitive process itself."
23 Taking a coldly objective view of this case, one would have to say that, regardless of some injury to certain Sun dealers, Super Test's price-cutting and Sun's response of making an allowance to McLean benefitted consumers and the competitive process in at least two ways: by promoting competition at the retail level and by providing an opportunity for a major to break away from a uniform pricing system 24 characteristic of an oligopolistic 25 industry such as the oil industry.
For precedent, the Commission relies solely on Enterprise.
Sun, aside from the Standard Oil decision, finds aid and comfort in Balian Ice Cream Co. v. Arden Farms , 9 Cir., 231 F.2d 356 , certiorari denied 350 U.S. 991 , 76 S.Ct. 545 , 100 L.Ed. 856 and American Cooperative Serum Association v. Anchor Serum Co. , 7 Cir., 1946, 153 F.2d 907 , certiorari denied 329 U.S. 721 , 67 S.Ct. 57 , 91 L.Ed. 625 .
Balian is distinguishable in that the supplier cut its price on ice cream products to all of its customers in the entire Los Angeles market area, and the Court found that there was no injury to any of the customers.
26 In American Cooperative Serum Association v. Anchor Serum Co. the Association sold directly to consumers through druggists who acted as warehousemen or agents; as a retailer the Association could meet the price of its competitors at the retail level.
27 According to the Commission, even without any judicial gloss Section 2(b) is clear and unambiguous: "the plain wording of the proviso has reference to the good faith meeting of competition of the seller, rather than that of the buyer".
Sun agrees that the section is clear and unambiguous: it contains no such restrictive language as the Commission reads into it, and Sun was within the scope of the proviso in reducing its price to McLean "to meet an equally low price of a competitor", Super Test.
These conflicting constructions illustrate again that the Robinson-Patman Act is not distinguished for its clarity of expression.
28 Here the language of Section 2(b) seems imprecise enough to support either interpretation. 29 Turning to the legislative history of the Act for enlightenment, we find Delphic generalities but no evidence that Congress considered the specific question at issue.
In the absence of aid from judicial precedents and legislative history, we are driven to determining whether Sun's construction of Section 2(b) is more meaningful and more in harmony with the purposes of the Act than the Commission's construction.
This determination requires us to weigh the disparate effects of the two constructions.
For an oil company marketing gasoline through filling stations owned or leased by the operators and competing with a supplier-retailer, the practical effect of adopting the Commission's view is to excise from the Act the defense of meeting competition.
If gasoline could be canned like tomatoes and stocked like bottle goods, and if gasoline suppliers competed with each other for the retail merchant's trade, the Commission's reading of Section 2(b) would be more realistic and more reasonable than is here presented.
But the nature of gasoline, the necessity for its bulk merchandising, the responsibility of the refiner or supplier for advertising, the dependent relation of the supplier on its dealers and the dealers on a single supplier make it a "fiction", or something less substantial than a legal fiction, "to speak of price competition at the oil company sale to the station level".
30 An oil company's product competes with the products of other refiners or suppliers in the motorists' market--through dealer outlets.
31 And, no oil company can stay alive if it loses its dealers.
The gas station retailer is a rare bird among retail merchants.
His business is built around pumps which can be used only for his supplier's gasoline.
32 Sun sells Sunoco in pumps that say "Sunoco".
Its competitor at 19th and Pearl in Jacksonville, Super Test, sells its gas in pumps that say "Super Test".
Sunoco gasoline flows unchanged from Sun through Sun pumps to motorists.
Sun, not some small retailer, bears the primary responsibility for advertising and for puffing Sunoco against Super Test and other gasolines even though the sales which are competitive take place at the consumer level.
McLean's losing fight for survival, therefore, was a lost battle in a long war between Sunoco and Super Test gasoline and between Sun and Super Test, suppliers, each out to increase its share of the motorists' trade.
As Mr. Justice Jackson has pointed out: "Retailers' storage capacity usually is limited and they are in no position to accumulate large stocks.
They can take gas only when and as they can sell it".
33 The suppliers, therefore, must maintain gasoline stocks to meet the needs of the ultimate consumer--the motorist; and a service station, therefore, primarily is what the word indicates--a service station.
In gasoline marketing the supplier simply cannot be cut off from the filling station operator and treated as if it competed only for the business of filling stations; oil companies compete with each other for the consumer's business.
34 The filling station operator is a conduit between the supplier and the motoring public.
As Mr. Justice Jackson observed: 337 U.S. at 323 The Commission centers its argument on the contention that Sun reduced its price to McLean "to favor a particular customer in order to help that favored customer meet his competition."
It is true that McLean was in a direct competition with the Super Test station across the street.
It is true that he was in distress.
But there is nothing in the record to show that any Sun official beat his breast over the personal plight of Gilbert V. McLean.
On the contrary, the record shows that Sun reduced its price to McLean--to help itself; to meet low prices that were inducing motorists to buy Super Test instead of Sunoco gasoline.
Keeping McLean in business at 19th and Pearl was keeping Sun in business at 19th and Pearl and preserving Sun's share of the market in the Jacksonville area.
An unfortunate result of narrowing the scope of Section 2(b) is that it takes flexibility out of a defense that ought to be flexible and dependent on individual competitive situations.
Here the Commission gives no consideration to the fact that Super Test was a supplier-retailer.
The Commission's sole criterion is whether Sun's price to McLean is lower than Sun's price to other dealers.
The result is doubly unfortunate when the price-cutting supplier is a vertically-integrated company.
The natural effect of the Commission's holding will be to push already highly-integrated majors into combining direct retailing with their other operations- to the detriment of non-majors, such as Super Test, as well as to the detriment of filling station operators .
One of the purposes of the Robinson-Patman Act was to promote local ownership, protect the small, independent merchant, and reduce the trend toward Monopoly.
35 Congressman Patman stated that the bill was "designed to accomplish what so far the Clayton Act has only weakly attempted, namely, to protect the independent merchant, the public whom he serves and the manufacturer from whom he buys, from exploitation by his chain competitor."
79 Cong.Rec.
9078 .
"The primary remedial objective of the Robinson-Patman amendment of the Clayton Act, therefore, was the protection of the smaller independent merchants from injury to their competitive position resulting from discriminatory advantages extended by manufacturers and producers to mass distributors who were using their concentrated buying power to demand and obtain price concessions and preferential allowances and services.
Whereas Section 2 of the original Clayton Act was aimed at predatory practices of powerful sellers directed at elimination of their weaker competitors, the Robinson-Patman Act was designed to curb the predatory use of bargaining power by chain stores and other large buyers and to preserve the independence of the small merchant as a factor in his local community."
Austin, Price Discrimination Under the Robinson-Patman Act, p. 11 (American Law Institute, 1959).
Here, ironically, the Federal Trade Commission, swept on inexorably by the logical necessities of its barren logic, finds itself in the unnatural role of fostering vertical integration at the expense of the small, independent filling station retailer.
36 The Commission's construction gives the vertically-integrated company a competitive advantage based on the legal effect the Commission attaches to integration of retailing operations rather than on such economic factors as efficiency of merchandising, of distribution or of performance.
This is not the case of an aggressive retailer, such as a supermarket, having an established policy of doing a high volume business on a low margin, consistently emphasizing price over service.
As the Commission sees it, without regard to the economics of merchandising gasoline, a supplier-retailer, large or small, may with impunity undercut the retail outlet of a competing supplier.
The undercut supplier may not resort to defensive tactics such as price allowance to his established outlet that in part (here, 1.7 cents) protects his dealer and himself against sporadic predatory raids.
How may a supplier protect itself in such a case?
First, as the Examiner, perhaps with tongue in check, suggested, Sun could change its system of distribution, integrate its retail outlets, and sell directly to motorists through stations the company owns and operates.
37 Second, as of course the Examiner did not suggest but implicit in the suggestion, is the alternative that Sun withhold help to a filling station in distress and put the entire burden on the individual dealer--an intolerable burden, for, as this case demonstrates, an individual retailer cannot survive a price war with a company that has integrated wholesale marketing and retailing.
The retail dealer operating his own filling station works on such a thin margin that the slightest cut slices to the bone, and his resources are not large enough to enable him to hold out for the duration of any long drawn out price war.
A large margin makes him an easy prey to an aggressive competitor.
The effect of the Commission's holding, therefore, is to bury the small, independent filling station retailer--whether the supplier takes over the ownership and operation of all its stations or, putting the entire burden on the dealer, the supplier takes no action.
This dilemma and its implications could not and did not escape the attention of the Examiner or the Commission.
The Examiner made--and the Commission approved--the suggestion, one that is somewhat more than banal, that if Sun should choose not to meet competition from Super Test by operating its own stations, a course of action naturally repugnant to the Commission, Sun could meet "competition at the dealer level by non-discriminatory reductions in price to all dealers".
In other words, to avoid the dilemma and to meet competition on the corner of 19th and Pearl streets in Jacksonville, Sun, perhaps ruinously, would have to reduce its price to all of its dealers in the United States.
38 Or, assuming that the suggestion means "all dealers" in Jacksonville--in context it is not so limited--and assuming also that such price reduction would not run afoul of Anheuser-Busch, 39 the Commission would have Sun enlarge the scale of the price war and risk a chain-reaction that might set off price wars throughout Florida and Southeast United States.
In either case, other oil companies, majors and non-majors, would have to meet Sun's price-cuts thereby spreading price wars and subjecting the margins of filling station operators to further compression.
Sun's restraint in taking no defensive action for four months and in giving a discount only to McLean had at least the merit of attempting to localize a disruptive price battle.
Extension of similar discounts by other major suppliers and by Sun, on an area basis, promptly resulted in a price war in the area.
40 But suppose that a supplier in Sun's situation should decide that an across-the-board tank-wagon price reduction to meet competition at one location is irrational, bad business management, and more than likely to bring on a general price war.
Then, if the Act must be construed as forbidding a supplier's making a price allowance to a retail outlet in distress--the effect is to freeze the price level of major brands of gasoline and to promote rigid resale price maintenance.
41 Imprecise language in the Robinson-Patman Act, policy divergencies between that Act and the Sherman Act, and the interrelation of integration and competition in the petroleum industry make it difficult for the Commission and the reviewing court to apply Section 2(b) with certitude as to the correctness of its application to the issue for decision.
The Commission itself has changed sides on the issue.
42 We have reached the conclusion that in this case the Commission's construction of Section 2(b) : violates the policy of the Act that places emphasis on individual competitive situations; focuses on injury to particular competitors rather than on the health of the competitive process; conflicts with the purpose of the Act to protect the small retailer; fosters vertical integration of retailing operations, jeopardizing the future of the non-major as well as the independent filling station operator; discourages sound marketing in that it confers a competitive advantage on a supplier gaining trade by sporadic predatory low prices unrelated to economic factors, in the sense that a high-volume low-margin policy of a super-market is related to such economic factors as low-cost efficiency of operation and the maximization of over-all profit; denies the realities of the market place in refusing to accept the undeniable fact that a supplier of gasoline competes with a supplier-retailer at the consumer level through filling station operators; tends to spread rather than localize price wars; and makes it impossible, as a practical matter, for a supplier to defend one of its filling stations, fighting for survival, or even to defend itself against destructive price raids of a supplier-retailer.
Section 2(b) should not be read so narrowly as to produce effects so out of line with national policy.
These effects may be avoided, in keeping with the spirit of the law and within the letter of the law, by a broad and simple construction: under Section 2(b) a supplier may be in competition with a supplier-retailer.
Here, a supplier selling gasoline that is in competition with the gasoline of a supplier-retailer and marketing its gasoline through an independent filling station that is in direct competition with a filling station owned and operated by the supplier-retailer is in competition with that supplier-retailer and entitled to assert the defense of meeting competition in good faith.
II.
The examiner held that even if Sun could assert the Section 2(b) defense, Sun failed to satisfy the statutory requirements of the defense for two reasons.
First, Sun's allowance to McLean was not to meet competition, but to undercut Super Test's price.
43 Second, Sun and McLean entered into an agreement to fix the resale price of Sunoco gasoline.
Such price-fixing agreement destroys the good faith defense and violates Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act.
A. The examiner's holding that Sun's allowance to McLean was to beat competition rests on the fact that the allowance of 1.7 cents was to enable McLean to post a price of 25.9 cents a gallon for Sunoco, a price then only one cent above the price of Super Test.
This holding is a complete reversal of the views the examiner expressed during the hearing.
44 The Commission did not discuss the point in its opinion; it did, however, adopt the findings and conclusions of the examiner.
The examiner was right the first time.
(1) There is evidence in the record supporting the contention that the usual price differential between a major's regular gasoline and a non-major's regular gasoline is two cents.
The examiner found, however, and the record supports the finding, that: "There is also considerable evidence in the record that the price differential between the two is frequently one cent a gallon.
Suffice it to say that there is not sufficient reliable, probative, and substantial evidence in the record to establish what, if any specific amount, is the usual and customary difference between major and non-major regular brands of gasoline."
This of course bears importantly on the question of Sun's good faith in meeting, not undercutting, Super Test.
(2) In holding that Sun's allowance of 1.7 cents to permit a posted price of 25.9 cents was to beat competition, the examiner relied on McLean's testimony that he was not hurt competitively by a two cents spread.
But this conclusion assumes that Super Test had an established, relatively stable pricing charge of 24.9 cents.
The record shows, however, that Super Test had a bouncing ball pricing policy.
The price had dropped as low as 21.9 and 20.9 cents a gallon.
October and November prices were fairly stable but from December 1 on it was beyond human knowledge to say what Super Test's price might be at any particular time and how long the price would stay put.
45 In response to a question from the examiner as to how he arrived at 25.9 cents, McLean testified that he thought it was "to keep the two cents differential".
Shortly after December 27, when McLean cut his price, Super Test cut its price to 23.9 cents.
Notwithstanding the unpredictable ups and downs in Super Test's prices in December, January, and February, McLean made no attempt to maintain a one cent differential or to ask Sun for any further allowance.
February 16 Super Test cut its price to 22.9 cents.
Two days later McLean went out of business.
We point out, too, that in view of Super Test's practice of giving savings stamps, worth about one cent a gallon, the actual spread exceeded the apparent differential.
It seems to us that in view of this nervous and erratic pattern of irregular prices, Sun's allowance of not quite two cents and McLean's choice of 25.9 cents were about as fair and reasonable a meeting of competition as anyone could expect.
(3) In reaching this conclusion, we have also considered, as evidence of good faith, Sun's restraint over a long period of provocation and Sun's diligence in attempting to collect and evaluate the facts before taking any defensive action.
B. The examiner concluded, again reversing the view he held during the hearings, 46 that Sun and McLean entered in a price-fixing agreement or understanding.
Price-fixing is per se unlawful.
United States v. Socony Vacuum Oil Co. , 1940, 310 U.S. 150, 223 , 60 S.Ct. 811 , 84 L.Ed. 1129 .
We recognize that direct proof of such agreement is not necessary, and that the Commission is charged with fact-finding.
But the difficulty of proving an "understanding" and the acceptability of circumstantial evidence as proof do not justify relaxing the requirement that substantial evidence must support the Commission's findings and conclusions.
As we read the record as a whole, there is no substantial evidence to support the Commission's finding of a price-fixing agreement.
McLean, testifying a year after he had been forced out of business, apparently not actuated by any love for Sun, unequivocally stated that he had no agreement or understanding with Sun as to his retail price.
47 Sun's regional manager and sales manager, who handled the allowance to McLean, were subjected to rigorous cross-examination.
They testified that Sun does not fix the retail price for its dealers, and did not have an agreement or understanding with McLean as to his resale prices.
He could post any price, and 25.9 was the price he selected.
Two of the four Sun dealers allegedly injured did testify that McLean told them that he was "very dissatisfied with the arrangement", but they refused to state that he had told them that he had an agreement with Sun or that Sun required him to fix a price of 25.9 cents.
The inference of price-fixing is based, as the examiner phrased it, on McLean's "testimony that he was required to take a cut in prices ['and drop his retail price to 25.9'] in order to secure the discount of 1.7 cents per gallon from [petitioner]".
The record shows, however, that the arithmetic of the situation, not Sun, required a discount of 1.7 cents and compelled McLean to take a cut of 1.3 cents, if he wished to post a price of 25.9 cents and still keep a bare subsistence margin of 3.5 cents above the tank-wagon price.
That is what McLean was trying to say when he talked about being "required" to take a cut and having his margin of profit "reduced".
He had no difficulty in making it clear that there was no agreement, no quid pro quo , and he saw no inconsistency in his testimony.
When Sun finally lowered its tank-wagon price to McLean, it is fair to assume that Sun would not have done so, if McLean had intended maintaining his price of 28.9 cents a gallon.
Such an arrangement would have given him a margin of 6.5 cents, clearly an unjustifiable preference over other Sun dealers.
This is a long way from a price-fixing agreement.
For the foregoing reasons, we set aside the Federal Trade Commission's cease and desist order issued against Sun Oil Company January 5, 1959.
