 SWYGERT , Circuit Judge.
Robert L. Schlagenhauf petitions for a writ of mandamus ( 28 U.S.C. 1651(a) , the All Writs Act) directed to the Honorable Cale J. Holder, district judge.
The petition raises an important question respecting the scope of Rule 35, Fed.R.Civ.P., 1 viz., whether a federal district court has the power to order a mental or physical examination of a person who is a defendant in a tort action.
We know of no prior decision directly in point.
2 Because the question is fundamental, going to the court's power to require a medical examination of a defendant in a civil action, we directed the district judge to show cause why the writ should not issue.
After a response to our order had been filed on behalf of the district judge and after briefs had been submitted by the parties to the litigation, oral argument was heard.
A diagrammatic description of the history of the litigation is presented in order to show how the question arises.
After the original complaint had been amended, Greyhound answered and filed its cross-claim.
Contract Carriers and McCorkhill also answered the amended complaint.
Contract Carriers and McCorkhill filed a letter, pursuant to the district court's order, setting forth the specific allegations relied on in defense of Greyhound's cross-claim.
Among these allegations is: National Lead also filed its answer to the amended complaint together with an answer to Greyhound's cross-claim.
One of the defenses asserted to Greyhound's cross-claim was that the negligence of the driver of the bus, Schlagenhauf, proximately caused the damages to the bus owned by Greyhound.
National Lead's cross-claim alleged "that the defendant, The Greyhound Corporation acting by and through its said agent and its said employee, [Schlagenhauf] were guilty of carelessness and negligence in one or more of the following particulars: On February 5, 1963, Contract Carriers, McCorkhill, and National Lead filed a joint petition for an order requiring Robert L. Schlagenhauf to submit to a series of mental and physical examinations.
The petitions gave the following reasons for such request: The petition further alleged that separate examinations are required by multiple experts because no one expert could examine Schlagenhauf respective to all the conditions which related to his driving ability.
In all four examinations were requested.
The district court on February 21, 1963, granted the petition and ordered Schlagenhauf to submit to mental and physical examinations by two named internists, two named ophthalmologists, three named neurologists and two named psychiatrists, despite the fact that only four examinations had been requested.
On March 14, 1963, Contract Carriers, McCorkhill, and National Lead filed supplemental petitions for examinations of Schlagenhauf.
These were supplementary to the original petition allegedly because the mental and physical condition of Schlagenhauf became additionally in issue by virtue of National Lead's cross-claim filed subsequent to the petition of February 5.
On March 15, 1963, the district court issued an order (which superseded its February order) granting the supplemental petitions and ordering Schlagenhauf to appear before the nine medical experts for psychiatric and physical examinations.
This court stayed the orders pending our disposition of the instant petition for writ of mandamus.
We are mindful of the stringent restrictions that have been placed on the issuance of the writ of mandamus, and its limitation to "the exceptional case where there is clear abuse of discretion or 'usurpation of judicial power' *."
Labuy v. Howes Leather , 352 U.S. 249, 257 , 77 S.Ct. 309, 314 , 1 L.Ed.2d 290 (1957).
In Labuy, the Supreme Court, on certiorari to the Seventh Circuit, in language that we deem pertinent to the instant petition said: Los Angeles Brush Corp. v. James 272 U.S. 701, 706 47 S.Ct. 286 71 L.Ed. 481 352 U.S. at 256 77 S.Ct. at 313 Certainly the writ is not to be used as a substitute for appeal.
Ex parte Fahey , 332 U.S. 258 , 67 S.Ct. 1558 , 91 L.Ed. 2041 (1947).
It should not be availed of to correct mere error in the exercise of conceded judicial power, although it may possibly be used to prevent usurpation of power, if "the lower court is clearly without jurisdiction."
Ward Baking Co. v. Holtzoff , 164 F.2d 34, 36 (2nd Cir. 1947).
The writ will not issue to permit this court to exercise the discretion entrusted by law to the district court.
Fisher v. Delehant , 250 F.2d 265 (8th Cir. 1959); Goldberg v. Hoffman , 226 F.2d 681 (7th Cir. 1955).
Unless we are prepared to say that the district court was without power to enter the Rule 35 discovery order, or that the district court so clearly abused his discretion as to make the equities of this case truly extraordinary, precluding adequate relief by way of appeal, then the writ must and should be denied.
The Supreme Court in Sibbach v. Wilson & Co., Inc. , 312 U.S. 1 , 61 S.Ct. 422 , 89 L.Ed. 479 (1941), settled the question whether Rule 35 abridges substantive rights of a litigant in contravention of the limitations against such abridgment specified in the Rules Enabling Act of June 19, 1934, 28 U.S.C. 723b -c. The Court held that the rule comes within the ambit of the statute regulating "procedure,--the judicial process for enforcing rights and duties recognized by substantive law *."
Sibbach is important because the Court there held that Rule 35 constitutes the lawful authority necessary for the exercise of a district court's power to order mental and physical examinations of a party.
Without such lawful authority, the Supreme Court had refused to recognize inherent power in federal courts to order physical examinations of the person.
In Union Pac. Ry. v. Botsford , 141 U.S. 250 , 11 S.Ct. 1000 , 35 L.Ed. 734 (1891), the Court enunciated its rationale for denying inherent power: 141 U.S. at 251 11 S.Ct. at 1001 141 U.S. at 252 11 S.Ct. at 1001 Today, in a number of our states, statutes, rules of court, and in some states, decisions, provide procedural techniques for the discovery of the mental and physical condition of a party similar to that provided for in Rule 35.
Numerous decisions, both state and federal, attest to the soundness of the medical discovery provisions.
3 This type of discovery has most frequently been applied in situations in which the moving party is a defendant asking for a mental or physical examination of a plaintiff so as to ascertain the extent of the latter's injuries.
This was the situation in Sibbach.
Indeed, the cases seem to proceed on the theory that a plaintiff who seeks redress for injuries in a court of law thereby "waives" a portion of his right to claim the inviolability of his person.
In the interests of justice, the plaintiff, by seeking relief, must submit to a physical examination to aid in the ascertainment of the truth of his claims--he may not conceal, or make difficult of proof, that which is the very basis of his action and which is particularly within his knowledge.
The fact remains, however, that Rule 35 refers to examination of a "party."
It would do violence to the clear wording of the rule to hold that only certain types of parties come within its terms.
Obviously those drafting the rules, the Supreme Court, which adopted them, and the Congress that tacitly approved them as discussed in Sibbach, were all cognizant of the fact that "party" means both plaintiffs and defendants in civil litigation.
It is well to point out that we do not believe Schlagenhauf became a "party" within the meaning of Rule 35 in so far as the present applications for examinations are concerned until the cross-claim filed by National Lead named him a party defendant (as to Contract Carriers and McCorkhill he is not yet a party.)
The original suit by Markiewicz, et al., although listing Schlagenhauf as a party defendant, is separate and distinct from the cross-claims filed by the various defendants in the Markiewicz suit.
Moreover, Schlagenhauf did not assume the status of a party defendant vis-a-vis Contract Carriers and McCorkhill merely by their listing his name in affirmative defenses to the cross-claim against them by Greyhound.
Only upon the filing of the cross-claim by National Lead did Schlagenhauf enter the litigation as a "party" within the ambit of Rule 35 with respect to National Lead's petition for mental and physical examinations.
Rule 35 requires that the person to be examined be a "party" and this requirement is basic to the rule's application.
Dulles v. Quan Yoke Fong , 237 F.2d 496 (9th Cir. 1956); Fong Sik Leung v. Dulles , 226 F.2d 74 (9th Cir. 1955); Kropp v. General Dynamics Corp. , 202 F.Supp.
207 (E.D.Mich.1962).
We decline to follow the reasoning in Dinsel v. Pennsylvania R.R. Co. , 144 F.Supp.
880 (W.D.Pa.1956), that appears to recognize inherent power in a federal court to order physical examinations of persons not parties to the pending action.
Such reasoning cannot be accommodated to the language of the Supreme Court in Botsford and Sibbach.
Furthermore, the very terms of Rule 35 restrict such examination to parties.
It should also be pointed out that Schlagenhauf was not a "party" to Greyhound's cross-claim merely by reason of his being an agent of Greyhound.
The Supreme Court declined to adopt a proposed amendment to Rule 35 recommended by The Advisory Committee in its Final Report of October, 1955, that would have added the phrase, "or of an agent or a person in the custody or under the legal control of a party," to the rule.
4 In view of that Court's failure to adopt the recommended amendment we decline to extend the coverage of the rule by decision so as to include agents of parties.
What confronts us then is the question of the power of the district court to order, on the application of National Lead, mental and physical examinations of petitioner who became a party defendant by virtue of National Lead's cross-claim.
In this regard we must answer the rhetorical question posed in 3 Ohlingers Federal Practice (Rev.Ed.)
610--: Sibbach v. Wilson & Co. 312 U.S. 1 61 S.Ct. 422 85 L.Ed. 479 In the sense that Rule 37 precludes the use of a contempt citation for enforcement of an order to submit to a physical examination, Congress has not consented to the forcible physical examination of litigants in federal courts.
It has, however, according to Sibbach, consented to district court orders directing a "party" to submit to a mental or physical examination in actions in which his "mental or physical condition" is "in controversy," if "good cause" for such examination be shown, and Congress has consented to appropriate orders by the district court (short of contempt) in those situations where the "party" refuses to submit to an examination.
In order that a federal district court may properly exercise its power to require a mental or physical examination of a party, Rule 35 requires that the party's mental or physical condition be "in controversy."
In a negligence action involving personal injuries of a plaintiff (or of a defendant who by way of counterclaim or cross-claim seeks damages for personal injuries) there is ordinarily no question about that party's mental or physical condition being in controversy.
The extent and permanency of his injuries is one of the ultimate fact issues in the case. In the situation we have here, however, where the party sought to be examined is a defendant who himself is making no claim for damages for personal injuries, the question whether his mental or physical condition is in controversy may be more difficult to decide.
See Wadlow v. Humberd , 27 F.Supp.
210 (W.D.Mo.1939).
The traditional respect for the inviolability of one's person that our society has consistently fostered--the concern for the individual's rights enunciated by the Supreme Court in the Botsford case, must be recognized.
Mere lip service to the requirements of "in controversy" and "good cause" in Rule 35 falls short of a district court's duty to litigants, particularly those not voluntarily in court, to protect the individual's right of privacy.
The rule was never intended to be used by adverse parties as a means to harass opponents with troublesome mental and physical examinations in the hope that by chance some mental or physical impairment might be discovered.
While the party seeking Rule 35 discovery need not prove his case before obtaining an order for discovery, it is incumbent upon him affirmatively to demonstrate: (1) the probability that the adverse party's physical and mental condition is relevant and proximate in point of time to the underlying issues of the litigation and that such condition is in controversy; and (2) good cause to believe that a physical or mental examination would best serve to promote the ascertainment of truth and that other means of discovery or proof are less satisfactory considering the law's solicitude for a party's privacy.
Here the district court had before it a situation involving a catastrophic motor vehicle accident in which several persons were seriously injured (the Markiewicz, et al.
suit potentially involves some $2,000,000.00 in damage claims), and allegations that petitioner had been involved in a similar accident in the past, that petitioner had admitted seeing lights some ten to fifteen seconds prior to impact but made no effort to stop the bus, that the driver of another vehicle was able to clearly see the lights of the truck and trailer over a considerable distance, and that the only human element utilized in the operation of the Greyhound bus involved in this accident was petitioner.
In addition, National Lead alleged that petitioner's poor eyesight was a contributing factor in the accident.
We believe that the several allegations of negligence made in this case together with the additional matters brought to the attention of the district judge relating to the circumstances of the collision are so intertwined with the mental and physical condition of petitioner that that condition may be said to be in controversy in the action for damages asserted by National Lead in its cross-claim.
Although the "in controversy" requirement of Rule 35 is necessarily related to the showing of good cause required of a movant under the rule, the sufficiency of good cause to grant the motion is not restricted to a demonstration that the mental or physical condition of the adverse party is in controversy.
The possibility of alternative proof available to the movant and the burden on the party sought to be examined must be balanced against the need for discovery.
Furthermore, the number and kind of examinations ordered is subject to the "good cause" requirement.
The number of examinations ordered should be held to the minimum necessary considering the party's right to privacy and the need for the court to have accurate information.
In summary, we conclude that a federal district court has the power under Rule 35 to require a party, whether cast in the role of plaintiff or defendant, to submit to a mental or physical examination upon compliance with the conditions of the rule; and in the case at bar that the district court acted within its power in ordering an examination under Rule 35.
Petitioner's other contentions, e. g., alleged abuse of discretion in ordering an excessive number of examinations, must await review on appeal from a final judgment.
The petition is denied.
