 THORNBERRY , Circuit Judge.
The City of Dallas, Texas, passed Ordinance No. 11284 1 requiring the classification of motion pictures as "suitable" or "not suitable" for young persons.
"Young person" is defined as one under under the age of sixteen.
In the preamble the ordinance recites the conclusion of the City Council that motion pictures "are one of the contributing causes to juvenile delinquency, sexually promiscuous behavior, and along with other factors, tend to incite criminal behavior on the part of young persons.
*" It is also noted that a great portion of the movies shown are available for screening more than thirty days prior to their initial exhibition and that the benefits of classification to the public will far exceed the burden placed on the motion picture industry.
"Not suitable for young persons" is defined as Exhibitors are required to submit a proposed classification and a summary of the film's plot to the nine-member Board.
If the Board is not satisfied with the proposed classification, a showing of the film is arranged.
The details of the classification procedure, time limits and provisions for appeal will be discussed later.
2 It is a violation of the ordinance to exhibit any film which has not been classified.
If a film has been found not suitable for young persons, it is unlawful to fail to state the classification in any advertisement; to fail to post the classification prominently in front of the theatre; knowingly to sell or give a ticket to any young person or to permit one to view the film and to exhibit such a film with one classified as suitable for young persons.
3 A young person accompanied by his parent, guardian or spouse may view any film, whatever its classification.
The ordinance provides for the issuance of a license to entitle the holder to exhibit films classified as not suitable for young persons and revocation of that license for up to one year for repeated violations of the ordinance or for failure to exercise ordinary diligence to determine those below the age of sixteen.
Violation of any provision of the ordinance is a misdemeanor punishable by fine up to $200.00 for each offense.
A group of Dallas exhibitors filed a complaint in federal District Court seeking a declaratory judgment that the ordinance in whole or part was unconstitutional and an injunction to prevent the City from enforcing the ordinance.
4 Judge Hughes concluded that the City had the power to pass such an ordinance, that Article 527 of Vernon's Ann. Texas Penal Code prohibiting obscene pictures does not prevent this type of regulation by the City, that the classification was reasonable in order to prevent the incitement of juvenile crime and delinquency, and that a film may be obscene when viewed by young people although not obscene as to adults.
She found the phrase "Not suitable for young persons" to be valid only to the extent Interstate Circuit, Inc. v. City of Dallas , N.D. Texas 1965, 249 F.Supp.
19, 24 .
The procedure for review of the Board's classifications was found to be sufficient to insure the exhibitors' right to a speedy determination of the issues and to guarantee due process of law.
The District Court, however, held the clause providing for revocation of the exhibitor's license to show films classified as not suitable for young persons invalid since it would deny exhibitors the right to show films not obscene as to adults.
5 Both the exhibitors and the City have appealed.
A number of national distributors of films have been allowed to join the exhibitors on appeal as amici curiae.
I. Before examining the details of the Dallas ordinance, we must first decide the basic question of whether any movie classification ordinance may be found valid.
Our study of the Supreme Court opinions indicates an affirmative answer.
When the Court first held that motion pictures were protected by the First Amendment in Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson , 1952, 343 U.S. 495, 502-503 , 72 S.Ct. 777, 780-781 , 96 L.Ed. 1098, 1106 , it considered the argument that "motion pictures possess a greater capacity for evil, particularly among the youth of a community, than other modes of expression."
Its conclusion was that "[i]f there be capacity for evil it may be relevant in determining the permissible scope of community control, but it does not authorize substantially unbridled censorship *."
The Court also noted that: In Butler v. State of Michigan , 1957, 352 U.S. 380 , 77 S.Ct. 524 , 1 L.Ed.2d 412 , the Court found unconstitutional a Michigan statute which made the distribution to the general public of publications "tending to the corruption of the morals of youth" a misdemeanor.
The Court concluded that "quarantining the general reading public against books not too rugged for grown men and women in order to shield juvenile innocence [s]urely is to burn the house to roast the pig."
It is significant that the statute was invalidated solely because it reduced adults to reading material fit for juveniles.
The recognition by the Court that the state had failed to reasonably restrict its legislation "to the evil with which it is said to deal" suggests the probable validity of a statute which is properly drawn to protect children without restricting First Amendment rights of adults.
A few months after the decision in Butler , the Court handed down the landmark case of Roth v. United States , 1957, 354 U.S. 476 , 77 S.Ct. 1304 , 1 L.Ed.2d 1498 , holding obscenity outside the protection of the First Amendment and establishing the standard for judging obscenity--"whether to the average person, applying contemporary community standards, the dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to prurient interest."
In adopting this test, the Court specifically rejected the Hicklin test 6 which judged obscenity by the effect of an isolated passage upon particularly susceptible persons.
Id. at 489 , 77 S.Ct. at 1311 , 1 L.Ed.2d at 1509 .
The Roth doctrine was reaffirmed and clarified in Jacobellis v. State of Ohio , 1964, 378 U.S. 184 , 84 S.Ct. 1676 , 12 L.Ed.2d 793 .
The Court noted that "a work cannot be proscribed unless it is 'utterly' without social importance *" and "'goes substantially beyond customary limits of candor in description or representation of such matters.'"
Id. at 191 , 84 S.Ct. at 1680 , 12 L.Ed.2d at 800 .
The "community" in the Roth test was described as the "society at large" rather than the inhabitants of a particular state or locale.
The important portion of the opinion 7 for our present consideration, however, is a paragraph by Justice Brennan which states: Butler v. Michigan 352 U.S. 380, 383 77 S.Ct. 524, 526 State and local authorities might well consider whether their objectives in this area would be better served by laws aimed specifically at preventing distribution of objectionable material to children, rather than at totally prohibiting its dissemination State v. Settle 90 R.I. 195 156 A.2d 921 8 378 U.S. at 195 , 84 S.Ct. at 1682 , 12 L.Ed.2d at 802 .
(Emphasis added.)
The Rhode Island case, State v. Settle , supra , which the Court cites with approval, upheld a conviction under a statute making the sale of pornographic material to persons under the age of eighteen a crime.
9 Although only Justice Goldberg joined in Justice Brennan's opinion, three other Justices indicated that they would uphold a statute aimed at the protection of children without a resulting restriction on the adult population.
Chief Justice Warren, in an opinion joined by Justice Clark, observed that a work may be "inoffensive under most circumstances but, at the same time, 'obscene' in the extreme when sold or displayed to children."
Id. at 201 , 84 S.Ct. at 1685 , 12 L.Ed.2d at 806 .
Justice Harlan made it clear that he favors allowing the state a wide scope in the field of regulating the distribution of obscene materials to children.
10 Id. at 203-204 , 84 S.Ct. at 1686-1687 , 12 L.Ed.2d at 807 .
Thus, it appears that at least five of the Justices involved in Jacobellis believe that the state may protect children from the distribution of material which could not be classified as obscene as to adults.
11 This position indicates an acceptance of the concept of "variable obscenity" as contrasted with "constant obscenity."
Constant obscenity assumes that "obscenity is an inherent quality of material that renders it unfit for everyone in all circumstances.
*" Lockhart & McClure, Censorship of Obscenity: The Developing Constitutional Standards, 45 Minn.L.Rev.
5, 85 (1960); see Gerber, A Suggested Solution to the Riddle of Obscenity, 112 U.Pa.L.Rev.
834, 848-849 (1964); Note, "For Adults Only": The Constitutionality of Governmental Film Censorship by Age Classification, 69 Yale L.J. 141 (1959).
On the other hand, variable obscenity rejects the idea of obscenity as inherent in the material and determines obscenity "by its appeal to and effect upon the audience to which the material is primarily directed."
Lockhart & McClure, supra , at 85.
Under constant obscenity, a work not obscene as to society at large by definition could not be found to be obscene as to any particular group such as children.
Variable obscenity, however, permits a finding that material is obscene when distributed to one group although it would not be held obscene if it were primarily distributed to another group.
For example, hard-core pornography would not be constitutionally "obscene" if directed exclusively to scientists for research purposes, even though such materials would clearly be obscene if distributed to the general public.
United States v. 31 Photographs , S.D.N.Y.1957, 156 F.Supp.
350 .
Any doubt as to the Court's position on variable obscenity was dispelled by the recent trilogy of obscenity cases: Ginzburg v. United States , 1966, 383 U.S. 463 , 86 S.Ct. 942 , 16 L.Ed.2d 31 ; Mishkin v. State of New York , 1966, 383 U.S. 502 , 86 S.Ct. 958 , 16 L.Ed.2d 56 ; and A Book, etc. v. Attorney General , 1966, 383 U.S. 413 , 86 S.Ct. 975 , 16 L.Ed.2d 1 .
While assuming in Ginzburg that the publications were not obscene in other contexts, the Court upheld a conviction on evidence of "exploitation of interests in titillation by pornography with respect to material lending itself to such exploitation through pervasive treatment or description of sexual matters *."
383 U.S. at 475 , 86 S.Ct. at 950 , 16 L.Ed.2d at 41 .
Thus the Court rejected the proposition that obscenity is a matter inherent in the publication under all circumstances.
Mishkin v. State of New York , supra , involves a situation more closely analogous to our present consideration.
Mishkin induced the publication and sale of a number of books "depicting various deviant sexual practices, such as flagellation, fetishism, and lesbianism *" His defense to the resulting obscenity prosecution was that these books did not appeal to the prurient interest of the "average" person and that the State had therefore failed to satisfy the requirements of the Roth test.
In rejecting this contention, the Court made a significant adjustment of the Roth -prurient-appeal test in adopting a variable-obscenity approach to the problem: Where the material is designed for and primarily disseminated to a clearly defined deviant sexual group, rather than the public at large, the prurient-appeal requirement of the Roth test is satisfied if the dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to the prurient interest in sex of the members of that group Roth 354 U.S. at 489-490 77 S.Ct. at 1311 supra Roth Hicklin Hicklin 383 U.S. at 508 , 86 S.Ct. at 963-964 , 16 L.Ed.2d at 62 .
(Emphasis added.)
The determination that the obscenity of material may be measured by its appeal to the prurient interest of its intended and probable recipient group is a repudiation of the basic concept of the constant obscenity theory and clearly marks the adoption of the variable obscenity doctrine by the Court.
The acceptance of this variable obscenity approach indicates that the Supreme Court would uphold a properly drawn statute designed to regulate material obscene as to children so long as the legislation does not have the effect of reducing adults to a level of consumption fit for children.
See Butler v. State of Michigan , supra .
The motion picture classification statute presents a prime example of a means of protecting children without appreciably restricting adults.
Lockhart and McClure in their excellent article on the censorship of obscenity 12 discussed the effects of such classification statutes and noted that they may indirectly prevent adults from seeing "Adults Only" films since the economic loss resulting from the exclusion of children from the audience may deter the production and exhibition of such movies.
The same economic deterrent, however, is present when the general public is excluded from the audience which may properly utilize certain pornographic works suitable only for scientific research.
Cf. United States v. 31 Photographs , supra ; Ginzburg v. United States , supra , 383 U.S. at 471-475 , 86 S.Ct. at 948-949 , 16 L.Ed.2d at 38-40 .
For this reason we conclude, as did Lockhart and McClure, that a properly drafted classification statute is a constitutional method of protecting children from motion pictures obscene as to them.
II.
The determination that a constitutional classification statute may be drawn brings us to the consideration of the Dallas ordinance presented here.
It seeks to classify motion pictures as not suitable for young persons when they describe or portray certain levels of brutality, criminal violence, depravity, nudity, sexual promiscuity and extra-marital or abnormal sexual relations.
13 As noted earlier, Judge Hughes upheld the ordinance only to the extent "that such films are obscene when viewed by an audience of young persons."
The classification standard, as restricted by Judge Hughes, clearly complies with the concepts of variable obscenity as adopted by the Supreme Court.
The more difficult question is whether the classification standard may go beyond restriction of obscenity to regulate the showing of movies depicting such things as excessive brutality and criminal violence as the Dallas ordinance seeks to do.
Although numerous attempts to employ non-obscenity standards have been rejected by the Supreme Court, 14 those cases do not control this question for they involve total censorship statutes prohibiting the distribution of the offending material rather than limited classification ordinances affecting only those under sixteen years of age.
See Note, 69 Yale L.J. 141, 150 (1959).
Of course, the principal obstacle to classification based upon standards other than obscenity is the First Amendment, an obstacle not applicable to classification solely on grounds of obscenity.
See Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson , supra .
The City, however, argues that the restriction of the First Amendment rights of minors may be justified by the overriding concern of society for the protection of its youth.
This argument finds support in Prince v. Commonwealth of Mass. , 1944, 321 U.S. 158 , 64 S.Ct. 438 , 88 L.Ed. 645 , which involved a state law prohibiting a parent or guardian from permitting a minor within his control from selling magazines on public streets.
Both the child and his guardian who was prosecuted for violating this statute were Jehovah's Witnesses, and the offense was the sale by the child of pamphlets published by that religious sect.
The defense was based solely on freedom of religion under the First Amendment and the parental rights guaranteed by the due process clause.
The Court recognized the child's right to exercise his religion and the parent's right to train and encourage the child's religious belief, but concluded that It is sufficient to show that the state has a wide range of power for limiting parental freedom and authority in things affecting the child's welfare; and that this includes, to some extent, matters of conscience and religious conviction Id. at 166-167 , 64 S.Ct. at 442 , 88 L.Ed. at 652 .
(Emphasis added.)
The Court conceded that the legislation would have been invalid if applied to the sale of such items by adults but stated that Id. at 168 , 64 S.Ct. at 443 , 88 L.Ed. at 653 .
The restriction of the child's First Amendment freedom of religion allowed in Prince is analogous to the attempted classification of movies under the Dallas ordinance so as to regulate the child's First Amendment freedom of speech.
Additional support for the City's position is found in the paragraph quoted from Jacobellis 15 which suggests legislation to prevent "the dissemination of material deemed harmful to children."
16 The use of "harmful to children" rather than "obscene as to children" may indicate that Justice Brennan envisioned the type of broad legislation found in the Dallas ordinance rather than a restricted obscenity standard.
Justice Brennan also stated that, since the statute in Jacobellis was not restricted in its effect to the protection of children, the Court must apply a "strict standard" in determining the constitutionality of the restriction.
As forceful as these arguments may be for the expansion of the scope of the classification standards, the long history of the misuse of the censorship power convinces us that the standard for classification must be restricted to the control of obscenity.
In considering the classification approach, we cannot ignore the activities of the censors in the context of total censorship statutes. 17 Nor can we assume that their level of performance will materially differ in applying broad standards under classification statutes.
Because of the very real threat to the adult's freedom of speech and expression, the Supreme Court has apparently limited censorship affecting adults to a narrowly defined area of obscenity.
Although a classification ordinance measuring "obscenity" by its appeal to children rather than by its effect on society in general necessarily affords the censor a broader area of regulation, it does not set him "adrift upon a boundless sea amid a myriad of conflicting currents with no charts" or vest in him "unlimited restraining control over motion pictures *" as statutes containing broader standards might do.
See Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson , 1952, 343 U.S. 495, 504-505 , 72 S.Ct. 777, 782 , 96 L.Ed. 1098, 1107-1108 .
While we recognize the interest of society in protecting children, we find even the child's freedom of speech too precious to be subjected to the whim of the censor.
III Both the exhibitors and the distributors contend that the classification standards of the Dallas ordinance are unconstitutionally vague.
Since we have concluded that the District Court was correct in limiting the application of the "not suitable for young persons" classification to films that are "obscene when viewed by an audience of young persons," we need not consider the alleged vagueness of provisions of the ordinance which purport to classify on a basis other than obscenity.
The Supreme Court considered the "vagueness" argument in Roth in its review of the federal obscenity statute ("obscene, lewd, lascivious, or filth or other publication of an indecent character") and a California statute ("obscene or indecent").
It was urged that the statutes did not provide reasonably ascertainable standards of guilt and therefore violated the constitutional requirements of due process.
354 U.S. at 491-492 , 77 S.Ct. at 1312-1313 , 1 L.Ed. at 1510-1511 .
The classification standard of the Dallas Ordinance as restricted by the District Court 18 conveys the "sufficiently definite warning as to the proscribed conduct" required by the Supreme Court in Roth .
IV.
The minimum procedural safeguards necessary for a motion picture censorship system to avoid constitutional infirmity were discussed at length by the Supreme Court in Freedman v. State of Maryland , 1965, 380 U.S. 51, 56-61 , 85 S.Ct. 734, 738-740 , 13 L.Ed.2d 649, 653-656 .
The Court first noted that "[a]ny system of prior restraints of expression comes to this Court bearing a heavy presumption against its constitutional validity."
The Court enunciated the following requirements: The Court observed that "it is common knowledge that films are scheduled well before actual exhibition.
One possible scheme would be to allow the exhibitor or distributor to submit his film early enough to ensure an orderly final disposition of the case before the scheduled exhibition date--far enough in advance so that the exhibitor could safely advertise the opening on a normal basis."
Ibid.
Briefly summarized, the Dallas ordinance provides for the following procedures: The exhibitor files a proposed classification prior to exhibition.
If the Board fails to act within five days, the proposed classification is considered approved.
If the Board is not satisfied, it must view the film at the "earliest time practicable," give the exhibitor opportunity to support his proposal, and make its decision within two days thereafter.
If any exhibitor files notice of non-acceptance of the Board's classification within two days after its filing, it then becomes the Board's duty to seek a temporary and permanent injunction from the Dallas district court within three days and to apply for hearing on the temporary injunction within five days.
If the exhibitor requests that the matter be considered on the merits of the permanent injunction at the hearing the Board must waive its application for temporary injunction and join the exhibitor's request.
If the injunction is granted and the exhibitor appeals to the Court of Civil Appeals, the Board must waive all statutory notices, file its reply to the exhibitor's brief within five days, and join the exhibitor in any motion to advance the cause on the docket.
Similar provisions apply to appeal by the exhibitor to the Texas Supreme Court and to appeal by the Board from adverse decisions of the district court or the Court of Civil Appeals.
If no injunction has been granted within ten days of notice of an exhibitor's non-acceptance, the Board's order is suspended.
19 It seems obvious that this procedure complies with the standards established in Freedman , with the only possible objection being the length of time necessary to get a final adjudication on the merits.
The ordinance provides for the Board's joinder in any motion to advance the case on the court docket and for numerous other devices to expedite the proceedings; but, of course, the City of Dallas cannot compel the state courts to afford the speedy relief requested.
20 Judge Hughes found, however, that the Texas courts make it a practice to advance cases involving the public welfare and that final judgment could be obtained from the Texas Supreme Court in less than thirty-five days. 21 The exhibitors here offered evidence that before the classification cases the City of Dallas had not been able to get the Court of Civil Appeals to hear an appeal in less than sixty-one days.
However, in recent classification cases arising under the Dallas ordinance, that Court has advanced the cases on its docket and, in one case, heard an appeal six days after the filing of the motion to advance.
22 So long as the courts are willing to cooperate in this manner, Freedman's requirement for speedy judicial action on the merits and on review are satisfied.
The intervening distributors complain that the ordinance does not contain provisions to insure them adequate procedural safeguards.
Freedman , however, does not require consideration of the distributor in censorship proceedings.
It also would appear that the interests of the exhibitor and the distributor in a particular locale are sufficiently similar and that the working relationship between them is sufficiently close to give adequate protection to the distributors.
23 V. The exhibitors argue that Article 527 of the Texas Penal Code pre-empts the field of regulating motion pictures.
Although Article 527 does apply to obscene motion pictures, it specifically excludes the type of commercial films which the classification ordinance seeks to regulate.
24 A similar argument was rejected by the Texas Court of Civil Appeals in Janus Films, Inc. v. City of Fort Worth , Tex.Civ.App.1962, 354 S.W.2d 597, 599 .
Writ of error was refused (no reversible error) by the Texas Supreme Court in a per curiam opinion which noted that appellate review of the trial court's granting or denying of a temporary injunction is limited to the question of abuse of discretion and that the Court of Civil Appeals should not have gone into the merits of the case. 163 Tex. 616 , 358 S.W.2d 589 .
In Chemline, Inc. v. City of Grand Prairie , 5th Cir. 1966, 364 F.2d 721 , this Court recently concluded that the Court of Civil Appeals' decision in Janus Films , although "not very convincing" in light of the Texas Supreme Court's opinion, controlled the determination of the question under the Erie [ Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins , 304 U.S. 64 , 58 S.Ct. 817 , 82 L.Ed. 1188 ] doctrine.
Because of the nature of the precedent established by Janus Films , this Court issued the mandate but granted the defendant permission to file a delayed application for rehearing if a Texas appellate decision were subsequently rendered authoritatively contrary to the Court of Civil Appeals' decision in Janus Films .
Janus Films , however, is no longer the only Texas authority dealing with Article 527.
The Texas Supreme Court has recently refused writ of error (no reversible error) in Interstate Circuit, Inc. v. City of Dallas , Tex.Civ.App.1966, 402 S.W.2d 770, 776 , where the Court of Civil Appeals summarily dismissed the exhibitors' argument that Article 527 pre-empted the field of movie regulation.
In view of this additional development in Texas law, we conclude that no provision for delayed application for rehearing need be granted as this Court did in Chemline, Inc. v. City of Grand Prairie , supra .
We have considered the remaining contentions of the parties and find them without merit.
The judgment of the District Court is Affirmed.
WILLIAM HAROLD COX, District Judge, dissents.
