 CELEBREZZE , Circuit Judge.
The question presented on this appeal is whether an action seeking to enjoin a breach of a no-strike provision in a collective bargaining agreement may be removed from State to Federal Court.
Avco Corporation (Avco) is a Delaware Corporation, qualified to do business in Tennessee.
Avco is engaged in interstate commerce, and its Tennessee manufacturing and assembly plant doing a substantial amount of aircraft structures work has a direct impact on the national defense.
Aero Lodge No. 735, International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, (Union) is the sole collective bargaining agent for approximately 2,000 production and maintenance employees of Avco's manufacturing plant in Nashville, Tennessee.
A series of work stoppages at the Nashville plant culminated in a plant-wide strike on October 15, 1965.
The collective bargaining ageement then in force provided that there would be no work stoppages or strikes, and the bargaining contract further provided for a method of settling grievances, including a provision for binding arbitration.
Avco instituted suit in the Chancery Court for Davidson County, Tennessee, seeking to enjoin the Union from striking, and asking also for general relief.
The complaint did not involve any allegation of violence in connection with the strike, and hence no foundation for the employment of state injunctive power under the police power doctrine.
After the Chancery Court issued a temporary injunction the Union filed a petition for removal of the cause to the United States District Court.
Upon removal, the Union filed a motion to dissolve the temporary injunction, and to dismiss the action upon the alleged ground that the complaint sought, and Avco had been granted, an injunction which the District Court had no power to issue or maintain by reason of the restrictions of the Norris-La Guardia Act.
Avco moved to remand the action to the State Court upon the ground that the complaint was not founded on a claim arising under the laws of the United States within the meaning of the Removal Act, but instead was founded upon breach of contract arising under State law.
Avco further maintained that the District Court, by virtue of the Norris-La Guardia Act, did not have original jurisdiction within the meaning of the Removal Act.
The District Court dissolved the temporary injunction, but refused to dismiss the action.
The motion to remand was denied.
Avco appeals.
The question presented here is identical to the question presented in American Dredging Co. v. Local 25, Marine Division, International Union of Operating Engineers , 338 F.2d 837 (C.A.3, 1964), cert. den.
380 U.S. 935 , 85 S.Ct. 941 , 13 L.Ed.2d 822 (1965).
In American Dredging , supra , the Court remanded the case to the State Court on the ground that the action, based solely on a State created right, did not come within 28 U.S.C., Section 1441 , which permits removal of a civil action to a Federal Court which has jurisdiction under a law of the United States.
We decline to follow American Dredging , and affirm the judgment of the District Court.
This action was removed to Federal Court pursuant to the provisions of 28 U.S.C., Section 1441(b) which provides, in part: Avco maintains that this case does not come within the scope of this removal authorization because its claim does not arise under the laws of the United States and further that Section 4 of the Norris-La Guardia Act, 29 U.S.C., Section 104 , withdraws jurisdiction from Federal Courts to grant the injunctive relief sought in the complaint.
We cannot accept the basic premise of Avco's argument that its action is based solely upon a State created right.
Section 301 of the Labor Management Relations Act, 29 U.S.C., Section 185 , 1 confers jurisdiction upon the District Court without regard to diversity of citizenship or jurisdictional amount to enforce collective bargaining agreements in industries affecting interstate commerce.
Textile Workers Union of America v. Lincoln Mills , 353 U.S. 448 , 77 S.Ct. 912 , 1 L.Ed.2d 972 (1957), held that Federal substantive law preemptively applies in suits under Section 301 , the Court stating: 301(a) 301(a) Jerome v. United States 318 U.S. 101, 104 63 S.Ct. 483 87 L.Ed. 640 301 This enunciated principle was reaffirmed in Local 174, Teamsters, etc. v. Lucas Flour Co. , 369 U.S. 95, p. 103 , 82 S.Ct. 571 , p. 576, 7 L.Ed.2d 593 (1962): 301 301(a) Thus, according to the findings of the Supreme Court, as enunciated in Lincoln Mills , supra , and expanded in Lucas Flour Co. , supra , all rights and claims arising from a collective bargaining agreement in an industry affecting interstate commerce arise under Federal law.
State law does not exist as an independent source of private rights to enforce collective bargaining contracts.
While State courts may have concurrent jurisdiction, they are bound to apply Federal law.
Charles Dowd Box Company v. Courtney , 368 U.S. 502 , 82 S.Ct. 519 , 7 L.Ed.2d 483 (1962).
The force of Federal preemption in this area of labor law cannot be avoided by failing to mention Section 301 in the complaint.
In view of the express finding in Lucas Flour , supra , Avco's contention that its action is founded upon a breach of contract arising under State law is without merit.
The action is based upon a violation of a no-strike agreement arising out of a collective bargaining agreement in an industry affecting interstate commerce.
Had the action remained in the State Court, the State Court, under the doctrine of Lincoln Mills and Lucas Flour , was bound to apply Federal and not State law.
Finding that Avco's claim is one arising under the laws of the United States, we next consider whether Section 4 of the Norris-La Guardia Act, 29 U.S.C.A., Section 104 , withdrew jurisdiction from Federal Courts.
Section 4 We do not think "jurisdiction" has the same meaning in Section 4 of the Norris-La Guardia Act as it does in Section 301 of the Labor Management Relations Act.
The Norris-La Guardia Act does not deny to Federal Courts jurisdiction over the parties or the subject matter.
The Federal Courts are denied the power to grant injunctive relief under the provision of Section 4 of the Act, and permitted to grant injunctive relief under the provision of Section 7 of the Act.
The Norris-La Guardia Act does not limit the power of the Court to entertain the suit.
As stated by the District Court, "the mere fact that a prohibited labor injunction is among the remedies sought does not mean that a District Court lacks original jurisdiction over the cause of action for the purpose of awarding other relief."
The loss of the power to grant certain equitable remedies does not mean Federal Courts have lost jurisdiction over the subject matter or parties.
In Pusey and Jones Co. v. Hanssen , 261 U.S. 491, 500 , 43 S.Ct. 454, 457 , 67 L.Ed. 763 (1923), Mr. Justice Brandeis said: Mr. Justice Stone said in DiGiovanni v. Camden Fire Insurance Assoc. , 296 U.S. 64, 69 , 56 S.Ct. 1, 3 , 80 L.Ed. 47 (1935): Whether "jurisdiction" in Section 4 means equity jurisdiction or jurisdiction over the subject matter has been fully considered by Professor Chafee, Some Problems of Equity, Chapters 8 and 9 (1950).
In commenting on congressional limitation on federal judicial power by the Norris-La Guardia Act, Professor Chafee said: Under Section 7 of the Norris-La Guardia Act, Federal Courts may grant injunctions under certain enumerated circumstances.
Professor Chafee cogently argued that if Federal Courts have no subject matter jurisdiction, then how can the Court sit without jurisdiction until certain facts are proved and then decide whether it has the power to act?
The answer is, jurisdiction attaches from the beginning or not at all.
The strike against Avco gave rise to a single cause of action for which any number of different remedies were available.
See American Fire & Casualty Co. v. Finn , 341 U.S. 6 , 71 S.Ct. 534 , 95 L.Ed. 702 (1951), where the Supreme Court defined cause of action as being predicated on a single wrong to plaintiff for which relief is sought.
While the injunctive remedy has played an important part in the history of labor law, such close relationship between this effective remedy and the cause of action does not mean the two are coextensive.
Here the complaint stated a single cause of action.
The relief prayed for was an injunction and general relief.
If Avco had not asked for general relief, it would have been entitled to any appropriate relief, other than an injunction, under Rule 54(c), Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
2 Under the Rules of Civil Procedure, federal courts in their discretion may grant relief of a kind not requested in the pleading of either party.
Mercury Oil Refining Co. v. Oil Workers Int.
Union, CIO , 10 Cir., 187 F.2d 980 .
In Sinclair Refining Co. v. Atkinson , 370 U.S. 195 , 82 S.Ct. 1328 , 8 L.Ed.2d 440 (1962), the Supreme Court held that Section 301 had not so narrowed the provisions of Section 4 as to permit injunctions growing out of a labor dispute.
The Court dismissed the count requesting an injunction, and the District Court, having jurisdiction over the parties and the subject matter, was free to go to trial on the merits of the count requesting damages.
While Sinclair Refining Co. v. Atkinson , supra , rests on plain language and legislative purpose, the Court said, at page 203, 82 S.Ct. at page 1333 : 301 Though Section 4 specifically applies only to Federal Courts, there was, nevertheless, a clear declaration of congressional policy against enjoining peaceful picketing which we must now follow and apply as part of Federal labor law. 3 The effect of Section 4 was not to authorize State Courts to grant injunctive relief, they already had that power.
However, the substantive powers of the States to determine labor law and labor policy in labor disputes arising out of collective bargaining agreements in industries affecting interstate commerce has now been taken away by Federal law.
Federal Courts are solely responsible for developing a single, consistent body of Federal labor law.
The Supreme Court said in Local 174, Teamsters, etc. v. Lucas Flour Co. , supra , 369 U.S. page 103 , 82 S.Ct. page 576 : 301(a) If remand is granted, State Courts would become the preferred forum for adjusting breaches of no-strike clauses in collective bargaining agreements in industries affecting interstate commerce.
Not only would this undermine a uniform development of the law, but the availability and effectiveness of the injunctive remedy would vary from State to State.
Consequently, in order to achieve this uniformity of application the remedies available in State Courts are limited to the remedies available under Federal law.
Avco's claim arises under the laws of the United States, and the complaint states an action over which the District Court had original jurisdiction.
Federal labor policy must have uniform application.
The Congress has declared that injunctions shall not issue to restrain peaceful picketing.
The judgment of the District Court denying the motion to remand is affirmed.
