 GEWIN , Circuit Judge: A year and a half after three police officers were found shot to death in Gwinnett County, Georgia, appellant Evans was tried before a jury and convicted of the murder of one of the officers.
Since the jury did not recommend mercy, the Gwinnett County Superior Court sentenced him to die in the electric chair.
Having exhausted his state remedies, 1 Evans filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, alleging that his conviction had been obtained in violation of his sixth and fourteenth amendment rights.
The district court denied the petitioned relief and Evans has appealed to this court.
We have determined that Evans was denied his sixth and fourteenth amendment right to be confronted by the witnesses against him.
We therefore reverse the judgment of the district court.
This case was argued before this court with Williams v. Dutton 2 which was the appeal of an alleged coconspirator of Evans.
The relevant background facts are set forth in Williams and we will not repeat them here.
In addition, most of the issues raised are common to both cases.
Since we must reverse on the confrontation question, we do not reach Evans' other contentions.
3 However, we should point out that many of the same issues will arise upon the retrial of this case and, in the interest of sound judicial administration, we commend a reference to the treatment in Williams of those constitutional questions.
The facts upon which Evans' sixth amendment contention rests are not in dispute.
During Evans' trial a witness, one Shaw, testified that Williams had stated to him that "if it hadn't been for that dirty-son-of-a-bitch, Alex Evans, we wouldn't be in this now."
According to Shaw, Williams made this statement the day after his arraignment in Gwinnett County on the murder charge and in response to Shaw's inquiry as to how Williams had made out in court.
At the time of the alleged statement, both Williams and Shaw were serving sentences for unrelated crimes in the federal penitentiary in Atlanta, Georgia.
4 Evans' counsel made a timely and vigorous objection to the statement attributed to Williams, arguing that it was inadmissible under both state evidentiary law and the sixth amendment.
The trial court overruled counsel's objection, holding the statement admissible in evidence under a Georgia statute which provides: 5 The Georgia Supreme Court upheld the ruling of the trial court, stating: 6 The confrontation clause of the sixth amendment provides: "In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right .
.
.
to be confronted with the witnesses against him."
In the early case of Salinger v. United States the Supreme Court stated: 7 Thus the fact that the framers of the Constitution did not intend to exclude hearsay evidence appears to have been viewed as having ossified the rule as then developed.
This is a regrettably shallow assessment of the wisdom and foresight of those responsible for the destiny of this nation.
8 But this view of the confrontation clause presented no difficulty so long as the clause was applicable only in the federal courts, because the confrontation-hearsay rule was then, for all practical purposes, a single principle in federal criminal cases.
9 History complicated the role of the federal judiciary, however, when the fourteenth amendment was adopted and the federal constitutional standard of due process of law was imposed upon the states.
Since many of the rights and privileges embodied in the Bill of Rights had long been regarded as fundamental to any concept of ordered liberty, they were expectably enforced against the states under the due process clause of the fourteenth amendment.
10 The enforcement of the confrontation clause against the states now requires the application of a none-too-concrete standard to state hearsay rules which have experienced a various and even erratic evolution.
11 Thus the duty of this court is not only to interpret the framers' original concept in light of historical developments, 12 but also to translate into due-process terms the constitutional boundaries of the hearsay rule.
13 In applying the confrontation clause to the states, the Court in Pointer v. State of Texas stated: 14 However, neither Pointer nor any subsequent decision adequately explains how and when a state hearsay rule exceeds permissible constitutional bounds.
In spite of the Court's effusive language, the confrontation clause is certainly not violated merely because the defendant is not permitted to confront and cross-examine a witness against him.
The Court has approved the admission, under a recognized exception to the hearsay rule, of a statement by a witness who is unavailable at the time of trial despite the fact that the right of confrontation is denied.
15 In explaining a previously recognized exception to the right of confrontation, the Court in Barber v. Page stated: 16 Generally but not unexceptionally, some evidence is better than none at all.
Thus when rational substitutes for the benefits of confrontation actually exist, there is no reason to exclude hearsay evidence.
Although we express no view as to the constitutional validity of any exception to the confrontation requirement which has not been ruled upon, it is important to point out that generally recognized exceptions to the hearsay rule have developed from a painful process of rationalizing the denial of confrontation.
17 The Supreme Court has now made clear that the rationale of hearsay exceptions in criminal cases must be continually scrutinized and reevaluated.
In Barber the trial court had admitted in evidence the transcript of testimony given at a prior trial upon the prosecutor's showing that the witness was outside the state.
According to the traditional view, the evidence was admissible because a witness outside the jurisdiction is beyond the compulsory process of the court.
18 The Supreme Court rejected this justification, stating: 19 We therefore think it clear that, if an accused is to be deprived of the right to confront and to be confronted by the witnesses against him, there must be salient and cogent reasons for the deprivation.
A criminal defendant cannot, consistent with the confrontation clause, be convicted upon the testimony of phantom witnesses whose credibility is unknown and unknowable by the trier of fact.
Appellee in this case states that Evans "demonstrates a rather basic confusion" in contending that his right to confrontation was infringed because witness Shaw did in fact appear in court and testify.
However, we think the confusion is appellee's.
The testimony objected to was not Shaw's but that attributed by Shaw to Williams who was not in court and who did not testify.
Appellee further argues that the Supreme Court authority cited by Evans involved written evidence and that those cases, therefore, do not control the oral statement involved here.
Since appellee has shown no basis for justifying a different treatment of written and oral evidence, we reject the distinction as untenable.
We have searched in vain for a reason to justify the abridgment of the right to confrontation which obviously occurred in this case. Appellee merely points to Georgia's coconspirator statute which, rather sphinx-like, answers all but the questions we ask.
The admission in evidence of the statement attributed to Williams occurred in circumstances which offered no rational substitute for confrontation.
20 In Douglas v. State of Alabama 21 the state called as a witness against the defendant one Loyd, who had already been convicted on the same charge.
When Loyd refused to answer questions, the prosecutor proceeded to read a confession, allegedly made by Loyd, which incriminated the defendant.
As he read, the prosecutor would pause occasionally and ask Loyd if he had made the statement read, but Loyd refused to answer any questions.
The Supreme Court held that the prosecutor's ventriloquistic performance had violated the defendant's sixth amendment right to confrontation.
A substantially similar attempt was made in this case to put words into the mouth of Williams who would doubtless have spit them out if he had testified.
22 In support of the constitutional validity of the Georgia statute under which Williams' alleged statement was admitted, appellee argues that the statute is identical in principle to rules in both federal and state courts.
Since the denial of confrontation in the present case is without rational justification, we need not consider the implications of a general judicial acceptance of such a rule.
However, we should point out that the statute involved here, as interpreted by the Georgia Supreme Court, goes far beyond the traditional coconspirator exception to the hearsay rule.
23 The crime had been committed well over a year before the statement was allegedly made.
Moreover, all three of the alleged conspirators were at that time in prison serving sentences for other crimes.
With all due respect to Georgia's highest tribunal, it is inconceivable that the statement attributed to Williams was made "during the pendency of the criminal project."
24 The authorities relied upon by appellee 25 make clear that the recognized exception relates only to statements actually made while the criminal conspiracy remained alive. 26 As construed by the Supreme Court of Georgia, the statutory coconspirator exception to the hearsay rule authorizes practices repugnant to the sixth amendment under the facts and in the circumstances presented in this case. As applied in this case, the statute collides with Evans' sixth amendment right of confrontation.
Since appellant Evans' right to confront the witnesses against him was infringed, it is clear that he is entitled to a new trial within a reasonable time.
Accordingly, the judgment of the district court is reversed and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
