 PER CURIAM: In these appeals the mutual fund industry levels a two-pronged attack on a national bank's authority to operate a collective investment fund as a service of its trust department.
The fund is a commingled managing agency account, similar in most respects to an open-end mutual fund.
First National City Bank's Commingled Investment Account (the Account) and other bank-sponsored funds likely to follow will compete with mutual funds and with those who market their shares.
Competitors claiming that the Account is unlawful are the Investment Company Institute (ICI), an association of mutual funds and their investment advisers and underwriters; and the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), whose members sell shares in open and closed-end mutual funds.
The Account was registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq., and approved by the Comptroller of the Currency as a bona fide fiduciary activity authorized for national banks by 92a of the Federal Reserve Act of 1913, 12 U.S.C. 92a .
The NASD intervened before the Securities and Exchange Commission to oppose the grant to the Account of exemptions from certain provisions of the Investment Company Act, and now seeks to set aside the Commission's orders granting them. 1 The ICI sued the Comptroller of the Currency and First National City Bank (the Bank) in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia for a declaratory judgment invalidating so much of the Comptroller's Regulation 9 , 12 C.F.R. 9.18 , as permits national banks to operate this type of account.
Upon cross-motions for summary judgment, the District Court invalidated portions of the regulation and required the Comptroller to rescind approval of the Account.
Investment Company Institute v. Camp , 274 F.Supp.
624 (1967).
From that judgment, the Comptroller and the Bank appeal.
Each appeal raises difficult questions of competitors' standing.
While a majority of the court has reservations about standing, these doubts have been resolved in favor of reaching the merits in cases of this consequence.
On the merits, we are agreed that the actions taken by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Comptroller are fully consonant with the statutes committed to their regulatory jurisdictions.
Accordingly, we affirm the orders of the Securities and Exchange Commission and reverse on the merits the judgment of the District Court in favor of the Investment Company Institute.
It is so ordered.
The opinion of Judge BURGER, in which Judge MILLER concurs, and the [**243] opinion of Chief Judge BAZELON, which follow, set forth the reasons for our action:
