 JOHN R. BROWN , Chief Judge: In this petition to review a Federal Power Commission order requiring the interconnection of the electrical transportation lines of the Florida Power Company with the distribution system of the City of Gainesville, Florida, primarily to secure emergency back-up power to overcome outages, two basic issues are presented.
First, Florida Power contends that the Federal Power Act, 16 U.S.C.A. 791a et seq., does not give the Commission jurisdiction to order a privately owned power company to interconnect its lines with those of a municipally owned system that both generates and distributes its own power.
Second, the Commission's basic policy concerning the terms upon which an interconnection will be ordered is questioned.
1 Florida Power argues that the Commission's policy of looking to the proportionate burdens that each system places upon the interconnected system networks instead of the benefits received as a result of the particular interconnection is inconsistent with the statutory authority to compel the interconnection.
2 We conclude that the Commission has jurisdiction to order this interconnection.
We do not believe, however, that the Commission's order concerning the terms of this interconnection is consistent with the statute and thus we refuse enforcement of the order insofar as it fails to compensate Florida Power for making available large quantities of back-up power at the interconnection.
I. A. The City of Gainesville System The City of Gainesville owns an isolated electric generation, transmission, and distribution system that serves 17,212 customers in the City and the adjacent areas.
This system is projected to have a capacity of 138.4 mw 3 of generation in 1970 with its largest unit rated at 50 mw.
The only transmission facilities operated by this system are a 115 kv 4 loop around the City and a 115 kv line to establish connection with Florida Power.
The projected maximum peak hour demand (peak load) of the City's system in 1970 will be 102 mw.
B. Florida Power's System In contrast to the small City of Gainesville system 5 Florida Power operates a major generation, transmission, and distribution system that serves 370,000 retail customers and supplies wholesale power to 12 municipal distribution systems and 9 REA cooperatives.
It covers 20,600 square miles in West, Northwest, and Central Florida.
During 1970 Florida Power will have 2114 mw of generation and projects a peak load of 1826 mw.
Florida Power's massive system operates through a backbone transmission network, and is connected with four major electrical systems in peninsular Florida (Tampa Electric Company, Florida Power & Light Company, Orlando Utilities Commission and Jacksonville Electric Authority).
It is also connected with Georgia Power Company and Gulf Power Company.
C. The Results of the Interconnection Obtaining emergency reserves 6 --both instantly available and peak load installed capacity--in small isolated systems such as that operated by the City is a difficulty accentuated more by isolation than size.
The only two solutions are the acquisition of additional generating capacity that will rarely be used and which is economically inefficient since a large portion of it must be kept in operation or "spinning" in order to provide the essential instantaneous reserve (see note 6, supra ) or to end the system's isolation by connection with other systems that can provide the emergency reserve.
To acquire emergency reserve of 50 wm, the size of its largest generator, the City chose the latter solution and sought to achieve the desired interconnection through negotiation with Florida Power.
When they were unable to come to terms, the City filed an "Application for Interconnection and Complaints Against Unlawful Actions" 7 with the Commission.
Pursuant to this application a hearing was held.
The Presiding Examiner found that an interconnection was clearly in the public interest since the City would be relieved of the necessity of maintaining and adding to its present inordinately large and inefficient generating reserve.
Under the terms of the recommended order Gainesville would have an additional reserve capacity equal to the size of its largest generator, would save approximately $300,000 per years 8 in investment and operating cost even after paying the cost of the interconnection, 9 and would have the reliability of a bulk power supply that it could have not previously achieved.
The Presiding Examiner found, however, that the benefits of the interconnection flowed in the direction of the City's system.
Florida Power, because of the relatively small size of the City's generators, would receive no significant additional reliability.
10 Because of the automatic nature of the interconnect, however, Florida Power will sell some power to the City in nonemergency situations, but these periods will be rare because the City has already built up large quantities of excess capacity that can be used to meet high demand periods.
The Presiding Examiner recommended that, even though no additional facilities would be needed and there would be no undue burden on the Florida Power system, Florida Power should be compensated.
He recommended that no set demand charge be imposed on the City.
Instead, he recommended that "the total operating benefits in dollars received by each party by reason of the interconnection be computed based on the respective estimates of savings to each, and payment of 50 percent of the difference be made by the party receiving the greater benefit by reason thereof to the party less advantaged *."
The Commission agreed that the interconnection was in the public interest.
It concluded, however, that no compensation should be paid.
Its decision was based on a policy of responsibilities which it phrased this way: 11 Pursuant to that policy it concluded that payment for the energy actually used and the City's assumption of the cost of the interconnection adequately compensated Florida Power.
As expected revenues from all types of services called for by the compulsory interconnect bear upon compensation, the order prescribed the rates, etc. for the three types of services set out in paragraph 7(d) (e) and (f), which are not to provide instantaneous emergency reserves.
12 II.
Jurisdiction Florida Power makes a frontal assault upon the Commission's action by a challenge to the Commission's authority to act upon the petition of a generating municipal system.
The argument is that Section 202 (b) of the Federal Power Act, 16 U.S.C.A. 824a(b) (see note 2, supra ), only authorizes the Commission to compel a public utility to establish a physical connection with "one or more persons engaged in the transmission or sale of electric energy" (emphasis added).
The argument then turns to section 3 , the definitional section of the statute, 16 U.S.C.A. 796 , 13 and points out that "person" is defined as "an individual or a corporation" and then that section 3(3) defines "corporation" to expressly exclude municipalities.
Florida Power also points out that Section 201(f) , 16 U.S.C.A. 824(f) , specifically provides that no Section 202(b) Despite the apparent cogency of the argument, this use of the definitional section of the statute as a limitation on the scope of the Commission's jurisdiction has previously been rejected.
In United States v. Public Utilities Commission , 1952, 345 U.S. 295 , 73 S.Ct. 706 , 97 L.Ed. 1020 , the Court held that the definitional section did not limit the Commission's authority over rate regulation.
14 In addition, in New England Power Co. v. F.P.C.
, 1 Cir., 1965, 349 F.2d 258 the First Circuit held that the definitional sections did not limit the power of the Commission to order an interconnection between a public utility and a nongenerating municipality.
Florida Power also argues that, independent of the language of the statute, the legislative history shows that generating municipalities were not "persons" for purposes of Section 202(b) .
This argument is more viable than the one limited to the language of the statute since both the Supreme Court and the First Circuit specifically reserved the question of whether a "municipality which generates as well as distributes electricity is to be regarded as a 'person' under this section of the Act."
New England Power Co. v. F.P.C.
, supra , 349 F.2d at 263 .
See also United States v. Public Utilities Commission , supra , 345 U.S. at 312-313 , 73 S.Ct. at 716-717 , 97 L.Ed. at 1036-1037 .
Moreover, Florida Power's position seems to draw support from the statements of the principal draftsmen of the Act, Federal Power Commissioner Clyde L. Seavey and Mr. Dozier A. DeVane, 15 Solicitor for the Commission.
And such statements may be powerful indicia of legislative intent and purpose.
Zuber v. Allen , 1969, 396 U.S. 168, 181-183 , 90 S.Ct. 314, 322-323 , 24 L.Ed.2d 345, 354 .
16 On closer examination, however, it is apparent that the statements of Commissioner Seavey and Solicitor DeVane refer only to the Commission's power to order public utilities to act as transporters of--"wheel" 17 --low cost government power to a government customer at the expense of a privately owned company.
See, e. g., Hearings Before the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, House of Representatives, on H.R.
5423, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.
(1935), 394, 395, 397, 532, 546, 559, 564; Hearings Before the Committee on Interstate Commerce, Senate, on S. 1725, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.
(1935), 257, 260, 271.
And, although there are general statements by them that do not necessarily refer to "wheeling", see e. g., Senate Hearings, supra at 256 , after close examination of the entire legislative history we can find no support for the conclusion that municipalities which generate their own power were to be treated differently from nongenerating municipalities concerning anything other than "wheeling".
18 III.
The Terms of the Ordered Interconnection Even though the Commission has jurisdiction to order this interconnection and even though the connection is "necessary or appropriate in the public interest" and the interconnection will not put an "undue burden upon" the facilities of Florida Power or "impair its ability to render adequate service to its customers", the terms of the interconnection do not adequately satisfy the statutory requirements 19 because they do not provide Florida Power with the "reimbursement reasonably due" it.
See 16 U.S.C.A. 824a(b) , (see note 2, supra ).
The interconnection will be of substantial benefit only to the City.
Through the interconnection it receives essential emergency backup, which is a service at all times instantaneously available, and which protects it against the outage of the largest of its generators.
(See IC, supra ).
The benefits to Florida Power, however, are largely illusory.
20 But, although there is no direct cost, Florida Power, really its customers, will bear a substantial burden.
They must bear the allocated fixed cost represented by the added obligation imposed under the terms of the ordered interconnection.
And this burden will be reflected in their cost-based rates.
They are entitled to not have to carry the entire responsibility for providing an extremely valuable service.
The Commission's policy of proportionate utility responsibility really works only one way.
The small system receives high benefits and, because of its size, no real obligations.
The large system, however, receives no benefit but does incur real, substantial responsibilities.
Such imaginary equity is not reasonable compensation.
Thus we deny enforcement of this order insofar as no provision for the reasonable compensation of Florida Power is made.
The remainder of the order, however, is enforced, and compliance need not be delayed until the amount Florida Power is to be paid is determined by the Commission and that determination reviewed.
But in sending this case back to the Commission for it to fix a formula for computing what would be reasonable compensation, we do not even whisper what that formula should be.
On reconsideration the Commission may determine that the set demand charge requested by Florida Power is a reasonable formula.
It may determine that the 50 percent-of-the-difference-in-benefits formula of the Presiding Examiner is more appropriate.
It may decide to use parts of both, neither formula, or a completely different formula.
This is for the Commission subject to later review.
Enforcement granted in part and denied in part.
