 WILKEY , Circuit Judge: On 17 February 1970, appellants, on behalf of themselves and others similarly situated, filed suit challenging the legality of what appellants term "surveillance of lawful civilian political activity by the U.S. Army," which appellees describe as "gathering by lawful means, maintaining and using in their intelligence activities, any information relating to potential or actual civil disturbances [or] street demonstrations."
Appellants sought a declaratory judgment that the Army's present conduct is unconstitutional or otherwise illegal, concomitantly an injunction forbidding future similar activity, and the destruction of all such data hitherto illegally obtained.
The United States District Court [**74] denied the requested relief and granted appellees' motion to dismiss on the basis of pleadings, affidavits, and oral argument, without testimony of witnesses.
Appellants claim that the Army's intelligence work involves undercover operations by military agents within the civilian community and organizations, maintenance of records at over a dozen regional and national record centers, and distribution to military units and to criminal investigative agencies of lists describing individuals and organizations who have publicly objected to governmental policies.
Appellants claim that these domestic activities of the Army go far beyond any legitimate military need, exceed the Army's statutory authority, inhibit political participation and debate, and deprive appellants and others similarly situated of the constitutional rights guaranteed by the First , Fourth , Fifth and Ninth Amendments, i. e. , the right to free speech and association, and the right to petition the government for redress of grievances, and the right of privacy.
Appellees assert the constitutional and statutory authority and duty of the President to use such of the Armed Forces as he deems necessary to suppress any insurrection or domestic violence, and point to Defense Department directives regarding the planning for and employment of military resources in the event of civil disturbances, under which one of the responsibilities of the Army is to provide "essential planning, operational and intelligence data to the national military command center and to military service command centers on a timely basis to insure that the national command authorities and appropriate military service command authorities are adequately informed."
For reasons stated hereafter, we find that this court and the District Court have jurisdiction, that there is a justiciable controversy, and that appellants have stated a claim in relation thereto.
We therefore remand the case to the District Court for ascertaining essential relevant facts and the determination thereupon of whether any rights of the appellants have been infringed by any actions of the appellees which may be proved.
I. JURISDICTION Appellants' complaint in the District Court alleged jurisdiction to be based upon the existence of a federal question as contemplated by 28 U.S.C. 1331 and the requisite $10,000 in controversy.
On this appeal 1 the Government contests the allegation of jurisdictional amount, contending that: In response to this argument, appellants in essence admit that their claim is not capable of valuation in monetary terms, but argue essentially that where a challenge to a claimed deprivation of fundamental constitutional rights of intangible value is involved, the purposes for the jurisdictional amount requirement 2 are inapplicable and that such requirement should therefore not be applied to defeat federal jurisdiction.
While there have been mounting expressions [**75] of judicial concern over this seeming gap, caused by the jurisdictional amount requirement, in the power of the federal courts to entertain federal question cases of this nature, we find it unnecessary to reach this question in the instant case. 3 As we recently held in Peoples v. United States Department of Agriculture: 4 11 D.C.
Code 521 Stark v. Wickard 321 U.S. 288 64 S.Ct. 559 88 L.Ed. 733 Nestor v. Hershey 138 U.S.App.D.C.
73 425 F.2d 504 5 [**76] Furthermore, we note that since the Government did not contest the existence of the alleged jurisdictional amount in the District Court, appellants had no opportunity to attempt to sustain their allegation that $10,000 was in controversy, an endeavor at which they might well be successful under the doctrine that, particularly where purely injunctive relief is sought, the amount in controversy may be measured by either "the value of the right sought to be gained by the plaintiff [or] the cost [of enforcing that right] to the defendant.
*" 6 In the instant case, it seems likely that if all the relief sought by appellants were granted, including enjoining the operation of the Army's civilian intelligence system and the production and destruction of all records pertaining thereto "maintained by any and all military agencies within the United States and overseas," the cost to the Army of complying with such a decree might well exceed $10,000.
Thus even apart from the applicability of 11 D.C.Code 521 , since we have found as detailed subsequently that appellants have otherwise stated an adequate and justiciable claim for relief, we would be constrained to permit appellants on remand the opportunity to meet their burden of satisfying the District Court that the requisite amount is in controversy.
7 For the foregoing reasons we reject the Government's claim that the dismissal should be affirmed for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.
8 [**77] II.
JUSTICIABLE CONTROVERSY In recent years the Army and the National Guard have been called upon to act to preserve domestic peace against violent protests leading to civil disorders, a role for the military which was not unforeseen in our Constitution.
9 Many violent protests were aimed directly at military functions and installations themselves, as in ransacking Selective Service offices, barring troop and supply trains by prostrate bodies on the tracks, unlawful attempts to enter military bases or demonstrations thereon, and harassment of defense-oriented businesses.
In executing other missions the Army confronted riotous mobs protesting matters unrelated to military operations, for example the tragic riots in Detroit, Newark, and other of our large cities.
During the period 1967-68 the National Guard was called upon eighty three times and the Army four times to quell cases of civil disorder.
While these statistics relate to the period of civil disorders during which the Army operated the intelligence system which appellants complain violated their rights, we also note that in the period beginning with the use of the Army paratroops at Little Rock in 1957 the Army has been called upon under related constitutional and statutory provisions to preserve civil peace in order that certain groups might exercise their constitutional rights.
The moral of this is that no matter who the persons or groups are giving voice to their protests against the established order, civil disturbance of one kind or another is likely to ensue; and, irrespective of the content or cause of the protest, the military need certain intelligence information to perform their mission "to enforce the laws of the United States" or "suppress insurrection."
10 In performing this type function the Army is essentially a police force or the back-up of a local police force.
To quell disturbances or to prevent further disturbances the Army needs the same tools and, most importantly, the same information to which local police forces have access.
Since the Army is sent into territory almost invariably unfamiliar to most soldiers and their commanders, their need for information is likely to be greater than that of the hometown policeman.
No logical argument can be made for compelling the military to use blind force.
When force is employed it should be intelligently directed, and this depends upon having reliable information--in time.
As Chief Justice John Marshall [**78] shall said of Washington, "A general must be governed by his intelligence and must regulate his measures by his information.
It is his duty to obtain correct information; *."
11 So we take it as undeniable that the military, i. e. , the Army, need a certain amount of information in order to perform their constitutional and statutory missions.
12 The questions are what type of information the military need, how they should go about obtaining it, when they need it, and whether what the Army has done here has infringed any of appellants' rights.
So much for the military's mission and intelligence necessity.
As for appellants' contention that their rights, constitutional or otherwise, have been infringed, they have some difficulty in establishing visible injury, at least on this incomplete record.
Appellants freely admit that they complain of no specific action of the Army against them, only the existence and operation of the intelligence gathering and distributing system, which is confined to the Army and related civilian investigative agencies.
There is no evidence of illegal or unlawful surveillance activities.
We are not cited to any clandestine intrusion by a military agent.
So far as is yet shown, the information gathered is nothing more than a good newspaper reporter would be able to gather by attendance at public meetings and the clipping of articles from publications available on any newsstand.
Thus the instant case, at this juncture, involves no concrete, identifiable sanctions, no compelled self-identification (except to the extent that the Army may attend meetings thought to be for a faithful few), and no threat of publication.
Turning to the authorities claimed to be relevant here, virtually all of the First Amendment cases cited government activity was enjoined or struck down fall into one of three categories: First Amendment 13 First Amendment 14 [**79] First Amendment 15 In view of the distinctions in this case from prior decisions, appellees argue that no justiciable controversy exists, i. e. , that nothing has been done, that nothing is contemplated to be done, and even if some action by the Army against appellants were possibly foreseeable, such would not present a presently justiciable controversy.
This position of the appellees does not accord full measure to the rather unique argument advanced by appellants.
While appellants do indeed argue that in the future it is possible that information relating to matters far beyond the responsibilities of the military may be misused by the military to the detriment of these civilian appellants, yet appellants do not attempt to establish this as a definitely foreseeable event, or to base their complaint on this ground.
Rather, appellants contend that the present existence of this system of gathering and distributing information, allegedly far beyond the mission requirements of the Army, constitutes an impermissible burden on appellants and other persons similarly situated which exercises a present inhibiting effect on their full expression and utilization of their First Amendment rights of free speech, etc. The baleful effect, if there is one, is thus a present inhibition of lawful behavior and of First Amendment rights.
16 Under this view of appellants' allegations, under justiciability standards 17 it is the operation of the system [**80] itself which is the breach of the Army's duty toward appellants and other civilians.
18 The case is therefore ripe for adjudication.
Because the evil alleged in [**81] the Army intelligence system is that of overbreadth, i. e. , the collection of information not reasonably relevant to the Army's mission to suppress civil disorder, 19 and because there is no indication that a better opportunity will later arise to test the constitutionality of the Army's action, the issue can be considered justiciable at this time.
Only recently this court decided Davis v. Ichord , in which an attack was made on the maintenance and potential use of files on political dissenters by the House Internal Security Committee.
This court there held that no case or controversy was presented because the appellants had failed to establish standing to attack the present use of the files and did not show any concrete indication that the Committee's files would be used against anyone in the future.
Nevertheless, this court in Davis did indicate that "among the considerations pertinent to determining the existence of a chilling effect upon the exercise of First Amendment rights which give rise to a case or controversy are the source of the chill , the extent to which it focuses upon the conduct of those who allege it, and the likelihood that it will affect that conduct."
The court in Davis was concerned with the "source of the chill" in order to determine whether the threat of future injury was sufficiently substantial to provide the necessary ripeness to the controversy.
Nevertheless, in view of this country's long-established tradition against military involvement in civilian politics, we think it significant that here the "source of the chill" is the Army, as opposed to the situation in Davis where the House Committee could point to a legal basis for the collection of such files pursuant to its designated function to investigate propaganda.
We think the Army has a legal basis for the collection of intelligence information relevant to its constitutional and statutory mission, but on the record before us we cannot say that the intelligence system as designed and operated does not go beyond that which would be justified by the Army's mission.
The Army system here is apparently of a much broader scope than the files involved in Davis , and we held in National Student Association v. Hershey 20 that "the severity and scope of the alleged chilling effect on First Amendment freedoms" is a factor to be considered in determining justiciability.
It is arguable that the existence of a system with the broad scope as alleged by appellants would affect the conduct of persons in the class that appellants claim to represent.
21 [**82] Referring to our holding in Davis that the "source of the chill" is important in determining whether there is any inhibiting effect on the exercise of First Amendment rights, we think that there is a significant difference between investigative actions taken by a military agency in reference to civilians and similar investigative actions taken by a regular investigative agency of a civilian branch of the Government.
22 One of the functions of a civilian investigative agency, such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation, is to compile information on law violators, agitators of violence, and possible subversives.
It has always been recognized that this is a delicate function, and it is exercised under the direction of the Attorney General.
Investigation is performed by men a majority of whom are lawyers or who have had considerable legal training, under the direction of lawyers in the Justice Department, and the information compiled is only usable and effective through court action.
The FBI is powerless to imprison anyone or to affect his liberty in any way except through the action of the courts.
The Army or other military, in contrast, are not concerned with law violations.
And, in sharp distinction to the FBI and other investigative agencies, they definitely command their own force to exercise at the will of their own commanders.
The military are not accustomed to effecting their will through courts and legal processes.
Indeed, the employment of military personnel in civil disorders itself implies at least a partial breakdown of law and order, a breakdown of normal processes of law through courts.
The compilation of data by a civilian investigative agency is thus not the threat to civil liberties or the deterrent on the exercise of the constitutional right of free speech that such action by the military is, because a civil investigative agency has no inherent power to act against an individual, that power always being subject to the well-defined restrictions of law and the approval of the courts.
The military have no such restrictions; [**83] they have their own force (of incomparable power), they have their own commanders trained as soldiers not lawyers, the military's vast size may make civilian control of individual or small unit actions more theoretical than actual, and the military is not accustomed to operating within the restrictions of law and the processes of courts.
23 It is highly important for the safety of the country that to the extent consonant with the performance of the military's mission a separation of sensitive information and military power be maintained, as a separation of match and powder.
In an emergency or anticipation of an emergency the military power can be supplied the necessary information from civilian investigative agencies; these two ingredients, potentially dangerous when combined, can be put together by a responsible President and his Cabinet officers as the emergency demands.
But to permit the military to exercise a totally unrestricted investigative function in regard to civilians, divorced from the normal restrictions of legal process and the courts, and necessarily coupling sensitive information with military power, could create a dangerous situation in the Republic.
The appellants have not had an opportunity to establish (and may never establish) their far-sweeping claims as to the character of the information gathered and the operation of the system established by the Army.
We were informed by appellees' counsel on oral argument that on 6 March 1970 the Secretary of the Army by directive to the Chief of Staff limited the intelligence activities here complained of and directed the personnel responsible to concentrate on the more important and likely sources and locales of violence.
Apparently in the judgment of the civilian head of the Army not everything being done in the operation of this intelligence system was necessary to the performance of the military mission.
If the Secretary of the Army can formulate and implement such judgment based on facts within his Departmental knowledge, the United States District Court can hear evidence, ascertain the facts, and decide what, if any, further restrictions on the complained-of activities are called for to confine the military to their legitimate sphere of activity and to protect appellants' allegedly infringed constitutional rights.
Appellants have, therefore, stated a claim upon which relief can be granted.
III.
REMAND Having found that this court and the District Court have jurisdiction, that a justiciable controversy exists, and that appellants have stated a claim upon which relief could be granted, we think the record now before us is much too incomplete for a court to determine the ultimate questions of whether the Army has infringed any rights of the appellants and whether appellants are entitled to any injunctive relief.
We therefore remand the case to the District Court for the determination of the following principal (and any related) points: 1.
The nature of the Army domestic intelligence system made the subject of appellants' complaint, specifically the extent of the system, the methods of gathering the information, its content and substance, the methods of retention and distribution, and the recipients of the information.
[**84] 2.
What part, if any, of the Army domestic intelligence gathering system is unrelated to or not reasonably necessary to the performance of the mission as defined by the Constitution, statutes, military regulations, and as interpreted by actions under those written definitions of the mission.
24 3.
Whether the existence of any overbroad aspects of the intelligence gathering system, as determined above, has or might have an inhibiting effect on appellants or others similarly situated.
4.
Such relief as called for in accordance with the above established law and facts.
Reversed and remanded.
