 HASTINGS, Senior Circuit Judge.
Plaintiff Ricci brought this action under sections 4 and 16 of the Clayton Act, Title 15, U.S.C.A. 15 1 and 26 ,2 seeking injunctive relief and treble damages.
The complaint charged defendants Chicago Mercantile Exchange, its president, Everette B. Harris, its vice-president, William Phelan, its board chairman, Leo Melamed, and Siegel Trading Company and its president, Joseph Siegel with violations of section 1 of the Sherman Act, Title 15, U.S.C.A. 1 3 and tortious interference with commercial relationships.
Siegel Trading Company and Siegel 4 moved to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a claim upon which relief could be granted and for want of jurisdiction.
In a separate motion to dismiss, the Exchange defendants argued the complaint failed to state a cause of action under section 1 of the Sherman Act.
From an order granting defendants' motions to dismiss, plaintiff appeals.
Count I of appellant's six-count complaint alleged, in substance, that he purchased a membership in the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and became duly qualified to trade in commodities and commodity futures pursuant to the rules of the Exchange and the Commodities Exchange Authority.
On February 11, 1969, Siegel induced the Exchange and its officers to transfer appellant's membership to James F. Reich, without hearing or notice, utilizing a previously revoked blank authorization to transfer membership.
Such action was allegedly in violation of the rules and regulations of the Exchange and the Commodity Exchange Act and was done in pursuance of an unlawful conspiracy with the intent and for the purpose of restraining appellant from conducting his lawful business.
5 As a result of such transfer, appellant was excluded from trading on the Exchange from February 11, 1969 until March 4, 1969 when he purchased another membership for $45,000.
Counts III and V of the complaint are directed against the Exchange and the individual defendants and reallege the allegations of Count I with respect to violation of the Sherman Act.
Counts II, IV and VI charge tortious interference with advantageous commercial relationships and, since all parties are residents of Illinois, will necessarily fall for want of jurisdiction if the Sherman Act allegations are not sustained.
The Exchange defendants claim that the trial court, in ruling on the motions to dismiss, admitted evidence other than that stated in the complaint and thereby converted them into motions for summary judgment.
See, Fed.R.Civ.P. 12(b), 56 .
If this were true, it would allow this court to examine deposition testimony which appellees contend entirely disposes of the case. The short answer is that the transcript of the hearing on the motion to take depositions demonstrates that the court below was considering only the allegations in the complaint when it ruled on the motions to dismiss.
Since this is an appeal from an order granting Rule 12(b), Fed.R.Civ.P., motions to dismiss, we must accept appellant's foregoing allegations of fact as true.
Walker Process Equipment, Inc. v. Food Machinery & Chemical Corp. , 382 U.S. 172, 174-175 , 86 S.Ct. 347 , 15 L.Ed.2d 247 (1965); Duzynski v. Nosal , 7 Cir., 324 F.2d 924 (1963).
I Appellant first contends that, absent any justification to be derived from the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's status as a board of trade and a designated "contract market" under the Commodities Exchange Act, Title 7, U.S.C.A. 1 et seq., the allegations of the complaint are sufficient to allege a group boycott, a per se violation of section 1 of the Sherman Act.
Relying on Scanlon v. Anheuser Busch, Inc. , 9 Cir., 388 F.2d 918 (1968), cert. denied, 391 U.S. 916 , 88 S.Ct. 1810 , 20 L.Ed.2d 654 (1968) and Ace Beer Distributors, Inc. v. Kohn, Inc. , 6 Cir., 318 F.2d 283 (1963), cert. denied, 375 U.S. 922 , 84 S.Ct. 267 , 11 L.Ed.2d 166 (1963), the Siegel defendants argue that the facts alleged merely amount to the substitution of one competitor for another with no resulting public injury and are, therefore, not within the purview of the antitrust acts.
Scanlon , supra , and Ace Beer , supra , are inapplicable to the case at bar.
Each concerned the cancellation of individual exclusive beer distributing contracts with the immediate substitution of other distributors.
The relevant markets were competitive and the courts held that no unreasonable restraint of trade resulted from the refusals to deal since existing competition was not diminished and the cancellation was not an unusual business procedure.
See, Ace Beer , supra at 287 .
Appellant has alleged his exclusion from the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, a monopolistic market, was in violation of its own rules and regulations.
Such exclusion is alleged to be a part of a conspiracy to intentionally injure his business.
In Gamco, Inc. v. Providence Fruit & Produce Bldg. , 1 Cir., 194 F.2d 484 (1952), cert. denied, 344 U.S. 817 , 73 S.Ct. 11 , 97 L.Ed. 636 (1952), the court was confronted with the exclusion of a trader from a produce building where the sales of fresh fruits and vegetables occurred.
The board that managed the building refused to renew the trader's lease after its expiration.
The court in finding violations of sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act said: Id. at 488 Accepting, as we must, appellant's allegations as to the reasons and manner in which he was excluded, there is no justification for the actions of the Exchange and the individual defendants.
The transfer of his membership in violation of the rules of the Exchange and pursuant to a conspiracy to intentionally injure his business would constitute a group boycott, per se actionable under the Sherman Act.
The absence of an allegation of public injury is not fatal to the maintenance of an action where a per se violation is alleged.
Radiant Burners, Inc. v. Peoples Gas, Light and Coke Co. , 364 U.S. 656 , 81 S.Ct. 365 , 5 L.Ed.2d 358 (1961); Klor's, Inc. v. Broadway-Hale Stores, Inc. , 359 U.S. 207 , 79 S.Ct. 705 , 3 L.Ed.2d 741 (1959); Switzer Brothers v. Locklin , 7 Cir., 297 F.2d 39 (1961).
Likewise, where the defendants enjoy the power to deny potential competitors access to the market, the absence of competitive change in the relevant market is not fatal to the cause of action.
Gamco, Inc. , supra 194 F.2d at 487 .
Finally, this is not a case, as appellees contend, where appellant has used traditional antitrust language to transform an essentially state cause of action into a federal antitrust claim.
Compare , Norville v. Globe Oil & Refining Co. , 7 Cir., 303 F.2d 281 (1962); Parmelee Transportation Company v. Keeshin , 7 Cir., 292 F.2d 794 (1961).
In view of the foregoing, we conclude that, absent any justification from the Exchange's status as a board of trade and a designated "contract market," the complaint is sufficient to allege a group boycott, a per se violation of section 1 of the Sherman Act.
II Relying primarily on Silver v. New York Stock Exchange , 373 U.S. 341 , 83 S.Ct. 1246 , 10 L.Ed.2d 389 (1963), appellant asserts that no justification can be derived either from the Commodities Exchange Act or from the Exchange's status as a board of trade for the actions herein alleged.
Consequently, he claims a cause of action under section 1 of the Sherman Act has been stated.
In Silver , supra , member firms of the New York Stock Exchange were ordered by the Exchange to terminate private telephone and tickertape connections to Silver's over-the-counter brokerage firms.
The Court, observing that the concerted cut-off by the Exchange and its members had deprived Silver of an asset important to his ability to compete as a broker-dealer, said that such conduct would have been a per se violation of the Sherman Act "absent any justification derived from the policy of another statute or otherwise."
Id. at 348-349 , 83 S.Ct. at 1252 .
However, because of the existence of the mandate of self-regulation present in the Securities Exchange Act, the Court sought to "reconcile pursuit of the antitrust aim of eliminating restraints on competition with the effective operation of a public policy contemplating that securities exchanges will engage in self-regulation which may well have anticompetitive effects in general and in specific applications."
Id. at 349 , 83 S.Ct. at 1252 .
The Court concluded that under the circumstances of the case, it did not have to complete the accommodation between the acts since the Exchange did not reach the threshold of justification under the statute and had plainly exceeded the scope of its authority to engage in self-regulation by not informing Silver of the charges underlying the decision to terminate the connections and by not providing an appropriate opportunity to explain or refute such charges despite prompt and repeated requests therefor.
Id. at 361, 365 , 83 S.Ct. at 1259, 1261 .
Appellant here contends that the Exchange was not justified in excluding him from trading because nothing in the statutory scheme allows the Exchange to discipline brokers by excluding them from trading.
Even if there were such statutory authorization, here he was afforded neither hearing nor notice and, thus, he claims the Exchange did not reach the threshold of justification.
Assuming these contentions to be true, they do not dispose of this case. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange is a "contract market" designated by the Secretary of Agriculture to conduct future trading in commodities pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended, Title 7, U.S.C.A. 1 , et seq.
As a condition of such designation, it must fulfill certain statutory requirements including the enactment and enforcement of bylaws, rules and regulations which relate to "trading requirements" 6 and which provide "minimum financial standards and related reporting requirements" 7 for members of such markets.
Failure to enforce these bylaws, rules and regulations may result in suspension or revocation of the contract market designation 8 as well as cease and desist proceedings with attendant misdemeanor penalties for failure to comply.
9 Anyone who acts singly or in concert with another to bring about a violation of rules and regulations issued pursuant to the Act is liable as a principal for such violations and may be subjected to loss of trading privileges on contract markets, as well as cease and desist proceedings with attendant penalties.
10 The facts alleged by appellant to support his antitrust charge are either violations or induced violations of Exchange rules, promulgated pursuant to the Act, which relate to "trading requirements" and financial reporting requirements.
11 As such, they could have been examined by the Commodity Exchange Commission or the Secretary of Agriculture.
12 Thus, we are not confronted with the problem in Silver wherein there was "nothing built into the regulatory scheme which performs the antitrust function of insuring that an exchange will not in some cases apply its rules so as to do injury to competition which cannot be justified as furthering legitimate self-regulative ends."
Id. at 358 , 83 S.Ct. at 1256 .
Rather, the maintenance of a private treble-damage suit in the instant case presents the "problem of conflict or coextensiveness of coverage with the agency's regulatory power" not considered in Silver .
Id. at 358 , 83 S.Ct. at 1255 .
Chief Judge Swygert, in his concurring opinion to Thill Securities Corp. v. New York Stock Exchange , 7 Cir., 433 F.2d 264 (1970), cert. denied, 401 U.S. 994 , 91 S.Ct. 1232 , 28 L.Ed.2d 532 (U.S. Mar. 30, 1971), suggested that the district court, on remand, consider this problem of coextensiveness of coverage by determining whether the Securities Exchange Commission possessed primary jurisdiction to judge the New York Stock Exchange's allegedly anticompetitive antirebate rule.
Id. at 276 .
The resolution of this issue depended, in part, on the consideration of the following factors: (1) the SEC's power to weigh antitrust policy in fulfilling its duty of review of Exchange self-regulation; (2) the ability of an aggrieved party to initiate SEC review; (3) the extent that SEC expertise would be useful in resolving the question of whether the antirebate rule was necessary to make the Securities Exchange Act work; and (4) the possibility of achieving the aims of the Sherman Act without subjecting exchanges to treble damage suits.
Id. at 277 .
Applying these criteria to the instant case, we think it appropriate for the invocation of the doctrine of primary jurisdiction.
There exists no express or implied exemption in the Commodity Exchange Act that would prevent the Secretary of Agriculture or the Commodity Exchange Commission from taking into account antitrust principles in their deliberations pursuant to the Act.
Judge Leventhal, concurring in Cities of Statesville v. AEC , D.C.Cir., 441 F.2d 962 (Slip opinion No. 21,706, Dec. 5, 1969) ( en banc ), observed: Hale v. F. C. C. 138 U.S.App.D.C.
125 425 F.2d 556, 561 Appellant could have applied for the institution of proceedings against the defendants before the Commission and/or the Secretary of Agriculture on the facts alleged in this case. 13 He could have thereafter petitioned for intervention in any proceedings initiated pursuant to his application.
14 If indeed the allegedly anticompetitive transfer of membership were in violation of Exchange rules, the Commission could have prevented it.
Moreover, the questions here involved are precisely the ones that the Commission and the Secretary are to resolve in fulfilling their watchdog function over the Exchange and its members.
15 The allowance of a private treble damage antitrust suit in this case prior to the attempted institution of actions before the Commission or the Secretary would discourage "interested persons" from helping the agency fulfill its regulatory function of insuring that contract markets enforce their own rules and bylaws.
Additionally, there is a potential repugnance between a decision of the Commodity Exchange Commission and the award of treble damages in an antitrust action.
The 1968 amendments to the Commodity Exchange Act provide the Commission and the Secretary of Agriculture with the discretion to refuse to report "minor violations" of the Act for prosecution "whenever it appears that the public interest does not require such action."
16 The award of damages that are essentially punitive in nature 17 could conflict with a decision by the Commission in the "public interest" that the punitive steps allowable under the Act should not be taken.
18 We hold, therefore, that before a private treble damage action for antitrust violations may be brought against these defendants charging violation of the rules promulgated as a condition to a contract market designation, the Commodity Exchange Commission and/or the Secretary of Agriculture must have the first opportunity to secure the fulfillment of the statutory duties imposed upon exchanges and their members.
The correct remedy in such a case where there is the possibility of a judicial remedy that cannot be granted by the administrative agency is to remand the case to the district court with directions to stay the proceedings until the agency has acted.
19 Accordingly, we reverse and remand this action to the district court with directions to stay the proceedings until such time as the Commodity Exchange Commission and/or the Secretary of Agriculture may act upon it.
Reversed and remanded with directions.
