 J. SKELLY WRIGHT , Circuit Judge: These consolidated appeals present important questions, unresolved in this jurisdiction, 1 as to the remedial powers of District Courts under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552 (1970).
The three appellees in these cases are each Government contractors subject to the Renegotiation Act of 1951, 50 U.S.C.App.
1211-1233 (1970), an elaborate statutory scheme designed to recoup excessive profits made by those doing business with the Government.
During the renegotiation process, each appellee filed with the Renegotiation Board a proper request for documents connected with the process.
See 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3) .
In each case the Board rejected the request, citing one or more of the exemptions contained in the Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1) -(9), and in each case the contractor then filed suit in the District Court to force production of the documents.
See 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3) .
On these appeals we are not asked to rule on the general applicability of the Information Act to the Renegotiation Board--an issue resolved by this court in Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corp. v. Renegotiation Board , 138 U.S.App.D.C.
147 , 425 F.2d 578 (1970).
Nor are we faced with the task of evaluating the various constitutional and statutory arguments which the Board advances in an effort to prevent forced production of the documents.
Those issues are still sub judice in the various District Courts, and it would be improper for us to express any views on them until a final order from the District Court is appealed to us. 2 Rather, the question which divides the parties at this stage is the propriety of preliminary injunctions issued in each of these cases against continuation of the renegotiation process until the final status of the documents is determined.
Appellees argued successfully in District Court that such an injunction was essential in order to preserve the status quo and prevent irreparable injury.
Specifically, they claimed that without an injunction the renegotiation process would be completed long before the status of the disputed documents could be determined.
Although completion of renegotiation would not formally moot the controversy, appellees contended, it would frustrate the purpose of the Information Act by depriving them of access to the documents during the period when such access would be useful.
In response the Board argued before the District Judges that the Freedom of Information Act nowhere conferred jurisdiction on trial judges to enjoin Board proceedings.
Alternatively, the Board contended that, even if such jurisdiction could somehow be [**178] found, the doctrine of exhaustion of administrative remedies precluded equitable intervention in ongoing administrative procedures.
Having unsuccessfully pressed these arguments at the trial level, the Board now reasserts them here.
However, for the reasons detailed below, we find them insufficient to persuade us that the District Judges abused their discretion in granting preliminary injunctive relief.
We hold that the Freedom of Information Act does confer jurisdiction on District Courts to enjoin administrative proceedings pending a judicial determination of the applicability of the Information Act to documents involved in those proceedings.
We further hold that the exhaustion doctrine poses no obstacle to issuance of such an injunction in a proper case.
It follows that all three decisions appealed from must be affirmed.
I. The Renegotiation Act Before evaluating the competing contentions of the parties in any detail, it is first necessary to understand the general contours of the Renegotiation Act and the procedural context in which each of these suits arises.
The Renegotiation Act vests broad powers in the Renegotiation Board to eliminate excessive profits 3 secured by contractors and subcontractors engaged in the "national defense program."
See 50 U.S.C.App.
1211 .
The Board exercises these powers by requiring every contractor or subcontractor subject to the Act to file a "Standard Form of Contractor's Report" containing detailed financial information.
See 50 U.S.C.A.App.
1215(e) (1) (1972 pocket part); 32 C.F.R. 1470.3(a) (1972).
On the basis of this information, the Board makes an initial determination as to whether the particular contract should be subject to renegotiation.
If the Board decides to proceed, the case is referred to one of the Regional Renegotiation Boards which examines the Standard Form of Contractor's Report and gathers any additional information needed.
Personnel employed by the Regional Board then prepare a "Report of Renegotiation" which includes a "recommendation with respect to the amount, if any, of excessive profits for the fiscal year under review."
32 C.F.R. 1472.3(d) (1972).
Upon receipt of the "Report of Renegotiation" the Regional Board examines the data de novo and makes its own tentative determination as to the amount of excess profits.
32 C.F.R. 1472.3(e) .
A conference is then held between the contractor and the regional personnel assigned to the case, at which the contractor is informed of the tentative determination and given an opportunity to present additional data and arguments.
At the conclusion of the conference the contractor may either agree to the tentative determination or proceed to the next step.
If he elects to contest the tentative determination, a second conference is arranged with a panel of the Regional Board.
The panel hears any additional arguments the contractor may wish to make, and then submits its recommendation for a final disposition to the Regional Board--a recommendation which may be for a greater or lesser liability than that contained in the tentative determination.
See 32 C.F.R. 1472.3(f) , (h) & (i) .
Thereupon the Regional Board makes a final recommendation which, again, may be "greater [**179] than, equal to, or less than" the tentative determination.
32 C.F.R. 1472.3(i) .
If the contractor is still dissatisfied, he then has recourse to the Renegotiation Board itself.
Upon taking such an appeal, the contractor has his case assigned to a division of the Board which is not "bound or limited in any manner by any evaluation, recommendation or determination of the Regional Board."
32 C.F.R. 1472.4(b) .
The division studies the case de novo still another time and makes a recommendation to the Renegotiation Board.
The Board then makes a final determination which, characteristically, "may be in an amount greater than, equal to, or less than" the prior determinations.
32 C.F.R. 1472.4(d) .
The term "final determination" is something of a misnomer, however, since even at this stage the renegotiation process continues.
The Board proceeds to negotiate with the contractor in an effort to secure his voluntary agreement.
Only if this effort fails does the Board enter a final order determining the amount of excess profits.
32 C.F.R. 1472.4(d) .
This order brings the administrative process to a conclusion, but it still does not exhaust the contractor's remedies.
An appeal of right lies to the United States Court of Claims which is explicitly directed to ignore all that has occurred before and to redetermine de novo the amount, if any, of excess profits.
See 50 U.S.C.A.App.
1218 (1972 pocket part).
The Court of Claims decision is reviewable in the Supreme Court by writ of certiorari .
50 U.S.C.A.App.
1218a (1972 pocket part).
At first blush this labyrinthine system of conferences, recommendations and seemingly endless de novo reviews may appear exceedingly wasteful.
Upon closer examination, however, it becomes apparent that the Board's bureaucratic structure is carefully attuned to its statutory purpose.
The Act's legislative history, as well as the Board's very name, make clear that Congress preferred negotiation to confrontation.
Indeed, the Act itself requires the Board to "endeavor to make an agreement with the contractor or subcontractor with respect to the elimination of excessive profits."
50 U.S.C.A.App.
1215(a) (1972 pocket part).
The Board's elaborate system of review is what provides the incentive for the contractor to reach such an agreement.
To be sure, the adamant contractor is free to stand on his legal rights and pursue the statutory route all the way to the Court of Claims and beyond.
But such a course entails considerable risk, since the de novo nature of each review means that the contractor's liability may well be increased if he pursues his remedies to the next rung of the bureaucratic ladder.
Moreover, this risk bulks still larger when one considers the extremely vague standards which the Board uses to measure excessive profits.
See note 3 supra .
Given the dangers and uncertainty inherent in pursuing administrative appeals to their conclusion, it is hardly surprising that most contractors reach quasi-voluntary agreements at the lower and middle levels of the bureaucracy.
4 These observations lead, in turn, to a paradox which has important implications for our decision in these cases.
Although the recommendations made by the lower bureaucratic levels are in no sense final or formally coercive, they are nonetheless exceedingly important to the contractor.
Indeed, their importance derives from their non-finality, since it is the possibility that they will be reversed and increased which provides the incentive to accept them without resort to theoretically available de novo appeals.
Thus appellees in these cases freely concede that they are still at the beginning of the administrative process and that, if the preliminary injunction were [**180] lifted, the initial unfavorable determination might well be reversed.
In No. 24,778 the Eastern Regional Board has made a tentative determination that Astro Communications Laboratory owed the Government $225,000 for the year under review.
Astro had held a conference with the Eastern Regional Board personnel assigned to the case and a meeting with a panel of the Regional Board had been scheduled when the District Court's injunction brought the process to a halt.
In No. 24,685 the Eastern Regional Board had already made a final determination that Bannercraft Clothing Company owed $1,400,000 for excessive profits in 1967 before the District Court intervened.
Bannercraft appealed this decision to the Renegotiation Board which, after meeting with the contractor, announced its determination that the company owed $175,000 for 1966 and $1,450,000 for 1967.
Bannercraft then obtained an injunction aborting the final stages of negotiation required before the Board can issue a binding order.
Finally, in No. 71-1025 the David B. Lilly Company has been informed by personnel of the Eastern Regional Board that they would recommend to the Regional Board an assessment against the company of $7,000,000 for excess profits realized in fiscal 1967.
The District Court granted a preliminary injunction before Lilly had decided whether to exercise its right to a conference with a panel of the Regional Board.
Clearly, then, in all three cases the administrative remedies are not yet exhausted.
Even in No. 24,685, which is farthest advanced, Bannercraft still has a final opportunity to negotiate a lower settlement with the Board, followed by a complete de novo reexamination of the case in the Court of Claims and possible review in the Supreme Court.
But although appellees concede that their liability may be reduced or eliminated, rather than increased, at a later stage of the administrative process, they nonetheless insist that they need documents in the Board's possession to decide whether to risk further review.
These documents, appellees contend, would reveal the strength of the Board's case against them and the facts on which the Board relies in assessing liability.
Without them, meaningful negotiation as envisioned by the statute becomes difficult or impossible.
From this perspective, the availability of later administrative relief is largely irrelevant.
Appellees claim that they need the documents now so they can take part in the vital negotiating process presently under way.
Future de novo review, they say, cannot compensate for present ignorance, especially when that ignorance could have an important bearing on intermediary decisions which as a practical matter may end the dispute.
Of course, the mere fact that appellees need present access to the documents does not mean that District Courts are entitled to enjoin ongoing proceedings until their status is decided.
Even a forceful demonstration of pending irreparable injury will not support an injunction if the trial court has no jurisdiction to issue it or if the exhaustion doctrine makes its issuance premature.
The existence of present need for judicial intervention does have a bearing on both jurisdiction and exhaustion, however, and appellees' demonstration of such a need must be kept in mind when these issues, to which we now turn, are examined.
II.
Jurisdiction The threshold issue in each of these cases is whether anything in the Freedom of Information Act confers jurisdiction on District Courts to enjoin ongoing administrative proceedings while the question of whether to require production of disputed documents is sub judice .
Certainly the Board is correct when it points out that nothing in the Act explicitly confers such jurisdiction.
While the statute states that "the district court of the United States has jurisdiction to enjoin the agency from withholding agency records and to order the production of any agency records improperly withheld," 5 U.S. C. 552(a)(3) , [**181] it does not in terms confer jurisdiction to enjoin agency proceedings until the records are produced or until their status is decided.
Moreover, the Board argues, the legislative history of the Freedom of Information Act makes plain that Congress harbored no such intent.
Both the House and Senate Reports indicate that when Congress passed the bill it was mainly concerned with providing information to the press and to the public generally rather than to parties in the middle of administrative litigation.
5 The main thrust of the Act is away from the notion that public records should be available only to those who demonstrate a specialized need for them and toward a system of universal access.
6 See, e. g. , K. Davis, Administrative Law Treatise 3A.4 (1970 Supp.); Getman v. NLRB , 146 U.S.App.D.C.
209, 218 , 450 F.2d 670, 679 (1971).
It would therefore be ironic indeed, the Board contends, if the statute were interpreted to authorize equitable intervention on the basis of specialized need.
Cf. Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. NLRB , 6 Cir., 433 F.2d 210, 211 970).
But although it is undeniably true that Congress was principally interested in opening administrative processes to the scrutiny of the press and general public when it passed the Information Act, the Board interprets the congressional intent too narrowly when it insists this was the only purpose the Act was designed to serve.
As the Act's history makes clear, Congress was also troubled by the plight of those forced to litigate with agencies on the basis of secret laws or incomplete information.
For example, as the Senate Report explains: will prevent a citizen from losing a controversy with an agency Senate Report at 7.
(Emphasis added.)
See also House Report at 8.
Cf. 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) : When this subsidiary statutory purpose is kept in mind, the possibility that Congress intended to authorize injunctions against pending administrative proceedings until secret records are revealed or their status determined seems less unlikely.
Nor is the fact that the Act nowhere in terms authorizes such injunctions fatal to appellees' case.
It must be remembered that Congress does not legislate [**182] in a vacuum.
Rather, "the governing statutes have been enacted in the context of a body of general concepts developed and developing which define the appropriate relation of agencies and courts."
L. Jaffe, Judicial Control of Administrative Action 426 (1965).
Historically, courts sitting in equity have had broad powers to do justice and avoid irreparable injury, and when Congress confers equitable jurisdiction upon a court, it is reasonable to assume that the legislature is aware of this tradition.
Clark v. Smith 13 Pet.
195, 203 10 L.Ed. 123 Mitchell v. Robert DeMario Jewelry, Inc. , 361 U.S. 288, 291-292 , 80 S.Ct. 332, 335 , 4 L.Ed.2d 323 (1960).
See also Hecht Co. v. Bowles , 321 U.S. 321, 329 , 64 S.Ct. 587 , 88 L.Ed. 754 (1944).
Among the oldest of equity's powers is the inherent authority to preserve the status quo pending a judicial review of the merits.
Scripps-Howard Radio v. FCC , 316 U.S. 4, 9 , 62 S.Ct. 875, 879 , 86 L.Ed. 1229 (1942).
Nor have the courts been troubled by applying this rule to stays of pending administrative actions.
See, e. g. , Murray v. Kunzig , 149 U.S.App.D.C.
256 , 462 F.2d 871 (1972).
See generally L. Jaffe, supra , at 687-708.
Although the rule has been variously justified as part of an equity court's "traditional equipment for the administration of justice," Scripps-Howard Radio v. FCC , supra , 316 U.S. at 9-10 , 62 S.Ct. at 880 , or as stemming from power conferred by the All Writs Act, Application of President & Directors of Georgetown College, Inc. , 118 U.S.App.D.C.
80, 84-86 , 331 F.2d 1000, 1004-1006 (1964), it has never been thought that the power must be embodied in a specific statute.
On the contrary, the usual presumption is that "if Congress had intended to make a drastic departure from the traditions of equity practice, an unequivocal statement of its purpose would have been made."
Hecht Co. v. Bowles , supra , 321 U.S. at 329 , 64 S.Ct. at 591 .
See also Porter v. Warner Holding Co. , 328 U.S. 395, 398 , 66 S.Ct. 1086 , 90 L.Ed. 1332 (1946).
Our opinion in this regard is unchanged by the decisions of this and other courts holding that the Freedom of Information Act does not permit a court to balance the equities before ordering release of records within the Act's ambit.
See Getman v. NLRB , supra , 146 U.S.App.D.C.
at 218-219 , 450 F.2d at 679-680 ; Soucie v. David , 145 U.S.App.D.C.
144, 153-154 , 448 F.2d 1067, 1076-1077 (1971); Wellford v. Hardin , 4 Cir., 444 F.2d 21 (1971).
But see K. Davis, supra , 3A.6 (1970 Supp.); General Services Administration v. Benson , 9 Cir., 415 F.2d 878, 880 (1969).
Our refusal to balance the equities in ordering production of records is based upon Congress' explicit rejection of need as a standard for disclosure, see text at note 6 supra , and its clearly stated command that all documents must be disclosed except those mentioned in specific, narrowly drawn exceptions.
"Since judicial use of traditional equitable principles to prevent disclosure would upset this legislative resolution of conflicting interests, we are persuaded that Congress did not intend to confer on district courts a [**183] general power to deny relief on equitable grounds apart from the exemptions in the Act itself."
Soucie v. David , supra , 145 U.S.App.D.C.
at 154 , 448 F.2d at 1077 .
It hardly follows, however, that Congress intended to withhold any of the usual weapons in the arsenal of equity which ensure conformance to the legislative will.
It is one thing to say that Congress has decided for itself which kinds of documents should be disclosed, leaving little if any discretion for the courts.
It is quite another to suggest that Congress has deliberately withheld the tools necessary for courts to implement its substantive decisions.
Since temporary stays of pending administrative procedures may be necessary on occasion to enforce the policy of the Freedom of Information Act, we hold that the District Court has jurisdiction to issue such stays.
Cf. Bristol-Myers Co. v. FTC , 138 U.S.App.D.C.
22 , 424 F.2d 935 (1970).
III.
Exhaustion Of course, the bare existence of jurisdiction does not mean that appellees were entitled to the relief they were granted by the District Court.
There is more to winning a lawsuit than demonstrating that the court possesses the naked power to act.
The plaintiff must also show that the case has reached a posture in which judicial intervention would be effective and appropriate.
At least since Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp. , 303 U.S. 41 , 58 S.Ct. 459 , 82 L.Ed. 638 (1938), this showing has included a demonstration that available administrative remedies have been exhausted.
While the exhaustion doctrine is occasionally referred to in a loose sense as "jurisdictional," it should not be confused with the type of jurisdictional question discussed above.
Jurisdiction, as the term is properly used, goes to the power of the court to act; exhaustion, on the other hand, goes to the timing of the action.
Whereas a jurisdictional bar is, in most cases, absolute, the exhaustion requirement, like the related abstention and ripeness doctrines, is subject to the sound discretion of the court.
See, e. g. , Sohm v. Fowler , 124 U.S.App.D.C.
382, 385 , 365 F.2d 915, 918 (1966).
In a recent Freedom of Information Act case, this court intimated that the exhaustion doctrine would not prevent equitable intervention in a pending administrative proceeding while the status of contested documents was litigated.
See Bristol-Myers Co. v. FTC , supra , 138 U.S.App.D.C.
at 27 , 424 F.2d at 940 .
Appellant now urges us to reject this dicta.
It cites to us three cases, not involving the Freedom of Information Act, in which the Supreme Court disapproved premature judicial intervention in the renegotiation process- see Lichter v. United States , 334 U.S. 742 , 68 S.Ct. 1294 , 92 L.Ed. 1694 (1948); Aircraft & Diesel Equipment Corp. v. Hirsch , 331 U.S. 752 , 67 S.Ct. 1493 , 91 L.Ed. 1796 (1947); Macauley v. Waterman Steamship Corp. , 327 U.S. 540 , 66 S.Ct. 712 , 90 L.Ed. 839 (1946)--and extrapolates from these cases the general rule that it is always improper for a court to interfere with pending administrative proceedings.
But as the cases listed in the margin clearly demonstrate, there is simply no such general rule.
7 To be [**184] sure, many other cases can be cited for the proposition that courts on occasion refuse to interfere with pending administrative proceedings.
8 But this conflict only illustrates the danger inherent in making easy generalizations about the exhaustion doctrine.
Professor Davis has put it bluntly: "Despite the many absolute statements in judicial opinions that judicial relief is withheld until administrative remedies have been exhausted, the holdings show that exhaustion is sometimes required and sometimes not.
No opinion of the Supreme Court explains the contrariety of holdings *."
3 K. Davis, Administrative Law Treatise 20.10 (1958).
No doubt much of this confusion stems from the fact that exhaustion is not really a coherent doctrine at all.
Rather, the exhaustion label uneasily unites a number of quite disparate policy considerations which sometimes work at cross purposes and always require individual examination.
As the Supreme Court has made clear, "The doctrine is applied in a number of different situations and is, like most judicial doctrines, subject to numerous exceptions.
Application of the doctrine to specific cases requires an understanding of its purposes and of the particular administrative scheme involved."
McKart v. United States , 395 U.S. 185, 193 , 89 S.Ct. 1657, 1662 , 23 L.Ed.2d 194 (1969).
When the exhaustion doctrine is broken down into its component parts, the task of making sense out of the many cases becomes considerably less formidable.
Moreover, when the purposes of the doctrine are individually measured against the facts of these cases, it is plain that no legitimate judicial policy would be served by depriving these appellees of the relief they seek.
Since exhaustion here would serve no purpose, it follows that the District Judges acted within their discretion and that their decisions should not be disturbed.
A. Irreparable Injury The first purpose served by the exhaustion doctrine stems not so much from the law of administrative agencies as from general equity jurisprudence.
A party seeking equitable relief must always show that he would suffer some sort of irreparable injury without it.
See, e. g. , Petroleum Exploration, Inc. v. Public Service Comm'n , 304 U.S. 209, 222 , 58 S.Ct. 834 , 82 L.Ed. 1294 (1938).
Moreover, the usual expense and annoyance which accompany vindication of a right through normal legal channels is not the sort of irreparable injury of which equity generally takes cognizance.
See, e. g. , Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp. , supra , 303 U.S. at 51-52 , 58 S.Ct. 459 .
Cf. Douglas v. City of Jeannette , 319 U.S. 157, 163 , 63 S.Ct. 877 , 87 L.Ed. 1324 (1943) [**185] .
Thus under normal circumstances a party who must undergo an administrative proceeding does not, by that fact alone, suffer sufficient injury to trigger equitable intervention.
See Virginia Petroleum Jobbers Assn v. FPC , 104 U.S.App.D.C.
106, 110 , 259 F.2d 921, 925 (1958).
It does not follow, however, that the harm stemming from pending administrative proceedings can never be so great as to be "irreparable."
Cf. Dombrowski v. Pfister , 380 U.S. 479 , 85 S.Ct. 1116 , 14 L.Ed.2d 22 (1965).
If the expenses incident to the administrative litigation are extraordinary, equitable relief may be appropriate.
See Public Utilities Comm'n of Ohio v. United Fuel Gas Co. , 317 U.S. 456, 469 , 63 S.Ct. 369 , 87 L.Ed. 396 (1943).
Similarly, if the administrative proceeding is too protracted, equity may intervene.
See Smith v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co. , 270 U.S. 587, 591 , 46 S.Ct. 408 , 70 L.Ed. 747 (1926).
And, of course, if an administrative body threatens invasion of important substantive rights, an equity court need not stand helplessly by until the damage has been done.
See Utah Fuel Co. v. National Bituminous Coal Comm'n , 306 U.S. 56 , 59 S.Ct. 409 , 83 L.Ed. 483 (1939).
Cf. National Student Assn v. Hershey , 134 U.S.App.D.C.
56 , 412 F.2d 1103 (1969).
In our view, appellees in these cases have demonstrated an impending injury which is different in kind from that inevitably associated with any administrative proceeding.
As demonstrated in Part I supra , the contractors assert a need for the disputed documents in order to engage in the sort of informed negotiation with the Board which Congress intended.
They also seek access to information which will help them decide whether to accept the Board's latest offer or pursue further channels of review, thereby risking imposition of a larger penalty.
It is senseless to say that the injuries they will suffer if not given the documents are merely incidental to the administrative process.
Appellees' point is that the administrative process cannot function as it was intended to function until they are given access to the documents.
Thus these cases are quite different from cases where parties have complained that administrative procedures are themselves burdensome.
Our appellees would like to take advantage of the renegotiation process, but claim an inability to do so effectively until the Board complies with the Freedom of Information Act.
If these facts are true, and it is for the trial court to determine in the first instance whether they are true or not, then appellees have demonstrated the sort of clear threat to a statutory right which can easily be categorized as an impending irreparable injury.
B. No Adequate Remedy at Law Closely allied to the irreparable injury requirement is a second doctrine, again stemming from general equity jurisprudence, which requires a demonstration of no adequate remedy at law. 9 Under normal circumstances, a party aggrieved at some early stage of the administrative process can secure relief through normal administrative channels.
So long as such relief is available, it cannot be said that his remedy at law is inadequate and, hence, equity will not intervene.
See, e. g. , Aircraft & Diesel Corp. v. Hirsch , supra , 331 U.S. at 778 , 67 S.Ct. 1493 .
Thus courts have frequently refused to interfere with pending administrative proceedings on the ground that the aggrieved party "has an [**186] adequate remedy within the four corners of the Act *," Virginia Petroleum Jobbers Assn v. FPC , supra , 104 U.S.App.D.C.
at 109 , 259 F.2d at 924 , or because any "error may be reviewed and corrected in the event that the respondent below is finally required to cease and desist from the challenged method of competition or practice."
Texaco, Inc. v. FTC , 5 Cir., 301 F.2d 662, 663 (1962).
As the Fifth Circuit explained in the context of Federal Trade Commission proceedings: Section 7 Section 11(c) Section 11(d) Section 11(c) Frito-Lay, Inc. v. FTC , 5 Cir., 380 F.2d 8, 9-10 (1967).
But while this rule is obviously sound, it is equally obvious that it has no relevance to these cases.
In the first place, even if we assume for the moment that there is a remedy for Freedom of Information Act violations "within the four corners" of the Renegotiation Act, that remedy will not prevent the irreparable injury which the contractors fear.
Because the statutory review procedures are all de novo , the review will be geared to a determination of whether in fact appellees realized excess profits.
Clearly the reviewing bodies will not consider whether the contractors could have negotiated better settlements at a lower level if they had had access to the disputed documents.
Nor will these bodies consider the possibility that if the documents had been made available appellees might not have appealed at all and thus not risked imposition of more extensive liability.
These cases are similar to Elmo Division of Drive-X Co. v. Dixon , 121 U.S.App.D.C.
113, 115 , 348 F.2d 342, 344 (1965), in that "[t]he type of procedural error [appellees] assert[ ] is not of a kind which affects the [Board's] substantive findings; no one suggests that the [Board's] procedure is unreliable as a fact-finding mechanism."
(Emphasis in original.)
In that case we held that "[t]he prospect of ultimate appellate review of any final order issuing out of the complaint proceeding is not adequate."
Ibid.
Similarly, it should be apparent here that if the contractors are to be granted relief at all they must have it now before the administrative momentum carries their cases beyond the point where the harm can be undone.
If we take Congress' declaration of purpose seriously, then the parties are supposed to negotiate over excess profits at the lower administrative levels.
The seemingly endless de novo reviews were intended to make the negotiating process work, not to provide a substitute for negotiation.
If the negotiating process fails to occur, the opportunity is lost forever.
To say that compulsory awards imposed by the Board or the Court of Claims at the end of the process provide an adequate remedy is to ignore the difference between an agreement freely arrived at, as preferred by Congress, and a judgment imposed by a court of law.
Moreover, assuming arguendo that the damage could somehow be undone at a later stage of the proceedings, it is still far from clear that the Renegotiation Board or the Court of Claims has jurisdiction to afford the necessary relief.
The Fifth Circuit could require exhaustion in Frito-Lay, Inc. v. FTC , supra , because the Clayton Act vested full power in the Court of Appeals to correct any errors made by the Commission.
But the Renegotiation Act vests no power in the Court of Claims to correct errors made under the Freedom of Information [**187] Act.
The Information Act confers jurisdiction on the District Court to order production of appropriate documents, and there is no reason to assume that this jurisdiction was not intended to be exclusive.
See K. Davis, supra , 3A.27 (1970 Supp.).
But cf. Polymers, Inc. v. NLRB , 2 Cir., 414 F.2d 999, 1006 (1969).
Certainly it cannot be said that Congress intended the Board to enforce the Information Act against itself when one remembers that the main purpose of the Act was to provide a disinterested forum to assess the discoverability of agency records.
See Senate Report at 3; House Report at 2.
It is this argument, among others, 10 which distinguishes this case from the superficially similar fact pattern presented in Sterling Drug Inc. v. FTC , 146 U.S.App.D.C.
237 , 450 F.2d 698 (1971).
In Sterling Drug , as in these cases, a party before an agency sought production of documents under the Freedom of Information Act and the due process clause of the Constitution.
But as Judge Tamm's opinion makes clear, the drug company sought to enjoin further agency hearings only under the theory that such hearings, without production of requested documents, would constitute a denial of due process.
11 The court properly rejected this argument, holding that if the company utilized the normal review procedure any denials of due process could be corrected by a reviewing court or by the agency itself.
Since this procedure constituted an adequate remedy at law, equitable intervention was improper.
At the same time, however, Judge Tamm pointed out that "[i]n applying these [exhaustion] principles in cases involving interlocutory appeals from agency action, the courts appear to have formulated the general rule that a party may bypass established avenues for review within the agency where the issue in question cannot be raised from a later order of the agency *."
146 U.S.App.D.C.
at 249 , 450 F.2d at 710 .
That, of course, is our case. Since a violation of the Freedom of Information Act can only be asserted in a collateral District Court action, it is pointless to remand appellees to their administrative remedies.
The plain fact is that there are no administrative remedies under the Freedom of Information Act.
Once a party has properly requested information from an agency, he has exhausted all the administrative avenues of relief which the Act provides.
His only remaining remedy is an action in United States District Court--the very mode of relief which our appellees sought and which the Board now attempts to frustrate by pointing to other [**188] "remedies" which do not exist and which would not provide adequate relief if they did exist.
Cf. United States Alkali Export Assn v. United States , 325 U.S. 196, 210 , 65 S.Ct. 1120 , 89 L.Ed. 1554 (1945).
Equity, of course, will not require performance of a useless act and, by the same token, exhaustion has never been thought to require parties to be "buffeted from 'pillar to post' in a vain search for a tribunal that can vouchsafe to them their rights."
Randolph v. Missouri-Kansas-Texas R. Co. , W.D.Mo., 85 F.Supp.
846, 847 (1949), affirmed , 8 Cir., 182 F.2d 996 (1950).
Since appellees will not be able to assert a Freedom of Information Act violation on appeal from the Renegotiation Board decision, they must assert it now if they are to do so at all.
It follows that their remedy at law is inadequate and that the traditional prerequisites for equitable intervention have been satisfied.
C. Respect for Administrative Jurisdiction As the discussion above should make clear, a good part of the exhaustion doctrine involves no more than a specialized application of the traditional tenets of equity.
It would be a mistake, however, to assume that the exhaustion doctrine has no independent existence.
There is another set of principles encompassed within the exhaustion rule which is special to administrative law and has no precise analogue in general equity practice.
As the Supreme Court has recently explained: McKart v. United States , supra , 395 U.S. at 193 , 89 S.Ct. at 1662 .
Exhaustion, then, is in part a doctrine of comity.
But whereas all the limitations on equity have their ultimate roots in comity, the exhaustion requirement gains added force from the specific congressional command that certain questions be decided in the first instance by agencies rather than by courts.
It was this command which the Supreme Court noted and primarily relied upon when it rejected premature review of Renegotiation Board decisions a quarter of a century ago.
Thus "[t]he legislative history of the Renegotiation Act shows that Congress intended the Tax Court [now the Court of Claims] to have exclusive jurisdiction to decide questions of fact and law *.
In order to grant the injunction sought the District Court would have to decide this issue in the first instance.
Whether it ever can do so or not, it cannot now decide questions of coverage when the administrative agencies authorized to do so have not yet made their determination."
Macauley v. Waterman Steamship Corp. , supra , 327 U.S. at 544 , 66 S.Ct. at 714 , 90 L.Ed. 839 .
See also Lichter v. United States , supra , 334 U.S. at 792 , 68 S.Ct. 1294 , 92 L.Ed. 1694 ; Aircraft & Diesel Equipment Corp. v. Hirsch , supra , 331 U.S. at 775 , 67 S.Ct. 1493 .
The general [**189] equitable principles discussed above were recognized, but they were buttressed with additional arguments deriving from Congress' unquestioned power to assign primary jurisdiction over certain matters to administrative agencies.
Aircraft & Diesel Equipment Corp. v. Hirsch , supra , 331 U.S. at 774-775 , 67 S.Ct. at 1504 .
But although the agencies must be granted broad deference when they act within their congressionally assigned roles, it hardly follows that they are due such deference when they exceed the bounds of their proper jurisdiction.
The Supreme Court has therefore stated that it will not require exhaustion when a party alleges that "there is no properly authorized administrative procedure for it to exhaust and that the administrative authorities who seek to determine its case have no lawful right to do so." Allen v. Grand Central Aircraft Co. , 347 U.S. 535, 540 , 74 S.Ct. 745, 748 , 98 L.Ed. 933 (1964).
It must be conceded that, as formulated, this principle is overly broad and cannot be reconciled with all the cases.
See 3 K. Davis, supra , 20.02 , at 65-66.
As the Court made clear early on: Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp. , supra , 303 U.S. at 51-52 , 58 S.Ct. at 464 .
But although exhaustion may not be avoided by the mere assertion that an agency is operating ultra vires , courts have frequently excused parties from exhausting remedies when an agency appears on the face of the record to be exceeding its proper authority.
See, e. g. , Oestereich v. Selective Service System , 393 U.S. 233 , 89 S.Ct. 414 , 21 L.Ed.2d 402 (1968); McCulloch v. Sociedad Nacional de Marineros de Honduras , 372 U.S. 10 , 83 S.Ct. 671 , 9 L.Ed.2d 547 (1963); Leedom v. Kyne , 358 U.S. 184 , 79 S.Ct. 180 , 3 L.Ed.2d 210 (1958).
What makes our cases unique is the fact that here the Board's lack of authority to enforce the Freedom of Information Act is not only clear from the face of the record; it is entirely uncontested.
The Act in terms confers jurisdiction to enforce its provisions on the United States District Court alone, and we do not understand the Board to argue otherwise.
See text at note 11 supra .
Obviously, then, these cases fall within the Grand Central rule.
If ever there is a case where "there is no properly authorized administrative procedure to exhaust," then surely this is it.
It should be equally obvious that the Waterman - Aircraft - Lichter line of cases is totally inapposite.
Appellees are not attempting to wrest from the Board authority which Congress has properly delegated to it.
They do not ask the court to resolve questions as to the extent of their liability or susceptibility to renegotiation--questions which the Board should answer in the first instance.
Rather, appellees seek determination of a question over which the Board plainly lacks jurisdiction- viz.
, the discoverability of documents under the Freedom of Information Act.
True, appellees would have the court suspend [**190] renegotiation until that question can be answered.
But that suspension does not change the ultimate power of the Board to decide all questions within its jurisdiction in the first instance.
Cf. Murray v. Kunzig , supra .
Our appellees, like the appellant in Elmo Division of Drive-X Co. v. Dixon , supra , object "not to the fact of the [Board's] making an initial substantive determination but rather to the process by which it has chosen to do so." 121 U.S.App.D.C.
at 115 , 348 F.2d at 344 .
The preliminary injunctions granted by the District Court merely ensure that the negotiating process will operate as Congress intended it to operate and that the policy of the Freedom of Information Act will be respected.
IV.
Conclusion We are not, of course, unmindful of the delay which judicial intervention in the renegotiation process might cause and of the Government's legitimate interest in speedily recovering funds which rightfully belong to it.
12 Contractors have a right to inspect documents covered by the Freedom of Information Act, but they have no right to delay recovery of public monies indefinitely while they endlessly litigate collateral issues.
But in fact it seems likely that the delay incident to assertion of most claims under the Information Act will be insubstantial.
It should be remembered that these are test cases and that the meticulous briefing and detailed argument which has slowed their movement through the courts is unlikely to be repeated.
Generally, it should be unnecessary to enjoin Board proceedings for more than the few days it takes the trial judge to inspect the documents in camera and reach a decision as to their status.
And it should be noted that the Act itself directs the District Court to give precedence to Freedom of Information Act claims and set them for trial "at the earliest practicable date."
5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3) .
Moreover, if an Information Act claim does promise to delay substantially Board proceedings, the District Court is certainly authorized to take that fact into account when it exercises its discretion.
One of the factors which an equity court must consider when deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction is the public interest, and the public interest in speedy completion of contract renegotiations is not to be doubted.
All we hold today is that the hypothetical possibility that some injunctions against Board proceedings may be improper does not justify a prophylactic rule against all such injunctions.
"It will be time enough to consider the relief to which the Board is entitled if and when a showing of disruption of Board functions is made."
Getman v. NLRB , supra , 146 U.S.App.D.C.
at 214 , 450 F.2d at 675 .
Since the District Court properly assumed jurisdiction in these cases and since no abuse of discretion has been shown, each of the orders appealed from must be affirmed.
In order to minimize the delay before the Board occasioned by these proceedings, the District Court should proceed to a decision on the merits forthwith.
Affirmed.
