 PER CURIAM.
We consider petitions to review and a cross-application for enforcement of an order of the National Labor Relations Board.
The Decision and Order of the Board is reported at 195 N.L.R.B.
No. 40 .
The petitions have been consolidated for hearing and disposition.
The complaint charged that the company violated Section 8(a)(1) of the Act, 29 U.S.C. 158(a)(1) , by prohibiting its employees from distributing literature on behalf of the Union during the employees' non-working time in non-working areas of the company's premises.
The Board found that for many years the company has maintained a rule prohibiting the distribution of literature on its parking lots and on other company property.
Although the Board determined that such a rule is presumptively invalid under the standards in Stoddard Quirk Manufacturing Company, 138 N.L.R.B.
651 , it observed that the company had interposed as a defense to the complaint the contention that the Union had contractually waived any objection it might have to the no-distribution rule.
It then determined that the Union could not contractually agree to the prohibitions of the no-distribution rule to restrict the dissemination of literature in opposition to any labor organization or on behalf of any labor organization.
In this respect, it amended its Gale Products rule 1 and followed the decision of the Eighth Circuit in Int.
Ass'n of Mach. & Wkrs.
Dist. No. 9 v. N. L. R. B. , 415 F.2d 113 (1969).
It elected not to follow the rule in our circuit enunciated in Armco Steel Corporation v. N. L. R. B. , 344 F.2d 621 (1965), and in General Motors Corporation v. N. L. R. B. , 345 F.2d 516 (1965).
The Board's order required the company to cease and desist from maintaining or enforcing any rule which prohibits distribution in non-working areas on non-working time on behalf of any labor organization relating to the selection or rejection of a labor organization as the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees in a unit appropriate for collective bargaining, or other matters related to the exercise of Section 7 rights.
It also required posting of appropriate notices.
We determine that substantial evidence on the record as a whole supports the Board's factual findings.
However, on a less restricted review we might have found that the contract provision 2 permitting the company to issue rules and regulations did not waive the right to distribute literature even in the context of a preexisting no-distribution rule.
3 Waiver of a right of such importance should be the subject of an express provision.
However, we are not persuaded that our ruling in Armco Steel should be overturned at this time, and we adhere to the position that the bargaining representative has authority to waive on-premises distribution rights of the employees at least in the absence of special circumstances not present here.
The petition of Magnavox to review is granted and the order will be set aside and enforcement will be denied.
Enforcement denied, review granted.
