 HUFSTEDLER , Circuit Judge: The Union appeals from an order holding it in criminal contempt for violating a temporary restraining order.
We reverse because the order expired by operation of law after removal of the cause to the federal court and before the alleged contumacious conduct occurred.
Granny Goose Foods, Inc., and Sunshine Biscuits, Inc. ("Employers"), commenced the action in a California state court by filing a complaint charging the Union with breach of a collective bargaining agreement.
It simultaneously filed an application for a temporary restraining order.
On May 15, 1970, the state court, ex parte , issued a temporary restraining order and an order to show cause why a preliminary injunction should not be granted, made returnable on May 26, 1970.
On May 18, 1970, Employers filed an amended complaint virtually identical to the original complaint except for the addition of new parties.
On the same date the state court, ex parte , issued a modified temporary restraining order reflecting the change in parties and likewise modified the order to show cause, returnable May 26, 1970.
On May 19, 1970, the Union filed a petition to remove the action to the federal court.
The following day it filed an amended petition to remove naming the new parties.
Immediately after removal, the Union filed a motion to dissolve the temporary restraining order, noticed for May 22, 1970, a date wtihin the life of the state order.
Employers simultaneously filed a motion to remand, also noticed for May 22, 1970.
Because the case was transferred from one federal judge to another, the motions were not heard until May 27, 1970.
The district judge denied the motion to remand on May 27, and it submitted the motion to dissolve.
While the motion to dissolve was pending, the Supreme Court decided Boys Markets, Inc. v. Retail Clerk's Union (1970) 398 U.S. 235 , 90 S.Ct. 1583 , 26 L.Ed.2d 199 , a decision that destroyed the foundations of Sinclair Refining Co. v. Atkinson (1962) 370 U.S. 195 , 82 S.Ct. 1328 , 8 L.Ed.2d 440 , on which the Union's dissolution motion had been based.
On June 4, 1970, the district court denied the motion to dissolve.
There was no further action until the proceedings to obtain a contempt order were brought on December 1, 1970, charging the Union with violating the modified temporary restraining order by commencing strike and picketing activities against Employers on November 30, 1970.
Employers never applied to the district court for a preliminary injunction.
Contempt proceedings, begun on December 2, 1970, concluded with an adjudication of criminal contempt in which a substantial fine was imposed on the Union.
This appeal followed.
If the action had been retained by the state court, the temporary restraining order would have expired by operation of law not later that 20 days after issuance of the modified order, i. e. , June 7, 1970 (Cal.Code Civ.Proc.
527 1 ).
If the restraining order had been initially granted by the federal district court, it would have expired not later than June 7, 1970, under the provisions of Rule 65(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
2 Employers contend that the life of the temporary restraining order was indefinitely prolonged by the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 1450 : "All injunctions, orders, and other proceedings had in such [removed] action prior to its removal shall remain in full force and effect until dissolved or modified by the district court."
The temporary restraining order was neither dissolved nor modified by the district court; therefore, it says, the order remained in full force and effect.
Section 1450 does not create a special breed of temporary restraining orders that survive beyond the life span imposed by the state law from which they spring and beyond the life that the district court could have granted them had the the trip.
It adds nothing to the terms orders initiated from the federal court.
Section 1450 permits transfer to the federal court of state court restraining orders without any loss of potency during of state orders.
The purpose of section 1450 is to prevent a break in the force of an injunction or a restraining order that could otherwise occur when jurisdiction is being shifted.
Employers' construction of section 1450 would offend the policy of California and federal policy imposing strict limitations on the longevity of temporary restraining orders.
The temporary restraining order could not survive beyond June 7, 1970, the last day within its maximum state life, a date months before the alleged contumacious acts transpired.
If Employers wanted a preliminary injunction, they easily could have sought one.
They did not do so. The Union's unsuccessful effort to dissolve the order before it died a natural death did not convert the temporary restraining order into a preliminary injunction or estop it from relying on the death certificate.
The order is reversed and the contempt proceedings are vacated.
