 INGRAHAM , Circuit Judge: Since 1921 packers and stockyard men in interstate commerce have been subjected to remedial federal legislation and regulation.
This appeal stems from the bankruptcy of one such regulated packer, Samuels & Co., Inc., of Dallas, Texas.
The issues raised, however, all question the priority of liens between a class of cattle raisers who sold their cattle to Samuels & Co. and C.I.T.
Corporation, which financed their purchase.
Prior to its filing a voluntary petition for an arrangement under Chapter XI of the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U.S.C. 701 et seq., Samuels & Co. had purchased cattle under a "grade and weight basis," and C.I.T.
had financed those purchases secured by a floating lien on Samuels's inventory and other property.
The cattle thus sold were delivered to the bankrupt, who slaughtered the animals.
The carcasses were permitted to cool and were then inspected, graded and weighed.
Samuels would then issue its check for the purchase price and further process the meat into finished products.
This system is common to the meat packing industry and its conditions are spelled out by regulation published in 9 Code of Federal Regulations.
C.I.T.
became insecure in this plan upon learning that Samuels intended to file a plan of arrangement under Chapter XI.
Thus on May 23, 1969, it refused to advance additional funds for cattle purchased.
On the same day Samuels filed its plan of arrangement which ultimately led to an adjudication of straight bankruptcy in April of 1970.
Appellants, representing a class of cattle sellers whose cattle were delivered to Samuels before May 23, 1969, and who had received checks in payment therefor but whose checks were returned unsatisfied, filed claims for the amount of the purchase price with the bankruptcy court.
That class of cattle sellers asserted a first priority lien and their position was opposed by C.I.T., asserting the superiority of its lien on Samuels inventory.
The bankruptcy court ordered a receiver to dispose of the easily spoiled meat and meat by-products but to hold the proceeds of sale pending resolution of the conflicting claims of the cattle sellers and C.I.T.
The referee ultimately held the cattle sellers' interests to be paramount and subordinated C.I.T.
's lien.
C.I.T.
sought review in the district court, which reversed the referee, holding: 9.312(c) The class of cattle sellers appeal.
We reverse.
The facts are undisputed.
The question is one of law concerning priority of liens in bankruptcy established under the Uniform Commercial Code: Is the reserved purchase money security interest provision, Texas Business and Commercial Code (U.C.C.
), 9-107(1) 1 applicable to what would otherwise have given Samuels voidable title under 2.403 of the Code, 2 or do the regulations promulgated under the Packers and Stockyards Act, 7 U.S.C.A. 181 , et seq., comprise a course of dealing and usage of trade so as to modify the Code provisions and permit the reservation of title to have effect against C.I.T.
's lien without perfection by filing under the Code, 9 -301?
It is clear that between a party whose security interest has attached and been perfected and one whose security interest has merely attached, that the former lien takes priority.
U.C.C.
9-301(1) (a).
The latter interest is also subordinate to the rights of a person who becomes a lien creditor before the interest is perfected, and who is without knowledge of the prior security interest.
9-301(1) (b).
A trustee in bankruptcy meets these requirements.
11 U.S.C. 107(c)(1)(B) ; 11 U.S.C. 110(c) .
Our concern is, however, for the proper rule to be afforded the remedial legislation of the Packers and Stockyards Act and the valid regulations issued thereunder.
7 U.S.C.A. 181 et seq., 9 C.F.R. 201.43 , 201.99.
Central to the district court's decision was the belief that the appellants' delivery of the animals while making a reservation of title acted solely as the taking of a purchase money security interest under 9-107 .
This would create voidable title in Samuels.
2-403 .
Thus title to the property would be in Samuels's hands at the time of bankruptcy leaving the unperfected security interest cut off by both C.I.T.
's lien on inventory and a trustee in bankruptcy's power under 67 and 70 of the Bankruptcy Act.
3 Where this reasoning breaks down, however, is its failure to properly account for Regulations 201.43 and 201.99 promulgated under the Packers and Stockyards Act (9 CFR, 201.43 and 201.99).
Regulation 201.43 requires a packer to make its payment to his cattle suppliers promptly: 201.43 Regulation 201.99 requires that until the packer pays for the carcasses the carcasses be identifiably held: 201.99 These regulations had binding effect on Samuels, whose compliance therewith permitted it to continue its operations.
C.I.T.
responds to appellants' arguments under the Code, 1-205 , 4 by observing that the regulations are not inconsistently applied and are but a means to implement a seller's right of reclamation provided by U.C.C.
2-702(b) .
Like the district court's conclusion on the application of 9-107(b) , C.I.T.
's argument misses the unique pattern of the Packers and Stockyards Act and Regulations.
Meat and meat by-products of like grade and weight are, as the referee found, fungible goods: The Packers and Stockyards Act regulations are a recognition that once a check has issued from a packer, the carcass will be processed and its identity lost.
Consequently, the "hot check" provision of U.C.C.
2-403(a) (2) is an unavailable remedy.
The Packers and Stockyards regulations and cases, therefore, consider the packer's obligation to pay to be that of a fiduciary, Bowman v. U.S.D.A.
, 363 F.2d 81 (5th Cir., 1966), and the purpose of the act to be the protection of the producer's and consumer's purse.
Bowman , supra ; Glover Livestock Co. v. Hardin , 454 F.2d 109 (8th Cir., 1972); Bruhn's Freezer Meats of Chicago, Inc. v. U.S.D.A.
, 438 F.2d 1332 (8th Cir., 1971); Swift & Co. v. United States , 393 F.2d 247 (7th Cir., 1968).
The reasoning of these cases and the impact of the Packers and Stockyards Act convinces this court that more than an unperfected security interest subject to reclamation is reserved for the cattle seller.
Not by contract but by statute and regulation a packer lacks full dominion over the carcasses until the seller has been paid.
Where the packer defaults by the issuance of a bad check (and destroys the identity of the security by processing the carcasses into fungible meat products), the seller is the beneficiary of a trust imposed by remedial statute.
This we must note was the very statute which permitted the bankrupt to engage as a meat packer in interstate commerce and it is clear that the Packers and Stockyards Act and Regulations 201.42 and 201.99 thereunder comprise a course of dealing and usage of trade known to both the bankrupt packer and C.I.T., which had financed it for an extended period.
The judgment of the district court is reversed and remanded with directions to reinstate the judgment of the referee.
