 JOHN R. BROWN , Chief Judge: Atlas Roofing Company petitions this Court to review an order of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (OSHRECOM) 1 affirming a $600.00 penalty assessed by the Secretary of Labor under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (OSHA).
2 Specifically Atlas was cited for violation of 29 C.F.R. 1926.500(f)(5)(ii) for failing to adequately cover roof openings that resulted in the death of one of its employees.
Petitioner challenges the order not only on the issue of substantive compliance with the regulation, but also on the grounds that the basic structure of OSHA is constitutionally defective because (1) the civil penalties under OSHA are really penal in nature and call for the constitutional protections of the Sixth Amendment and Article III (2) even if found to be a civil penalty, OSHA violates the Seventh Amendment because of the absence of a jury trial, and (3) this is a denial of the Fifth Amendment right to a "prejudgment" due process hearing, since under OSHRECOM orders are self-executing unless the employer affirmatively seeks review.
While we recognize the importance as well as the novelty in some cases of Atlas' arguments, we disagree with these contentions and affirm.
I. In The Beginning At 9 a. m. on June 6, 1972 Johnny Boseman, a temporary employee of Atlas Roofing Company, was fatally injured when he fell through a 3′ × 3′ ventilation bay set in the roof of an unfinished warehouse to the concrete floor 30 feet below.
Boseman's death initiated an inspection by the Department of Labor and as a result, Atlas, his employer and the subcontractor for the project, was cited for a "serious" violation 3 of OSHA for failing to maintain an adequate cover or railing around the exposed roof bay.
4 Atlas was directed to correct the violation immediately and pay a $600.00 penalty.
In response, Atlas chose to contest the citation and proposed penalty by way of the statutory review procedure.
5 In the hearing before the Review Commission Administrative Law Judge (ALJ), Atlas denied that it had violated the regulations and raised as additional defenses the contentions that the enforcement procedures of OSHA were unconstitutional.
6 Limiting his decision to Atlas' factual arguments only, the ALJ concluded that the applicable regulation required employers to provide guardrails around roof openings and, absent those, a cover that was "so installed as to prevent accidental displacement."
7 In view of this requirement, the ALJ concluded that Atlas had failed to show that the insulation material--of the same nature that was being used for the roof covering--met the requirements of the applicable standard.
The proposed $600.00 penalty was adjudged to be an appropriate and reasonable one.
Subsequently, Atlas filed a petition to seek discretionary review by OSHRECOM itself.
8 Because no member of the Commission requested that the decision of the ALJ be reviewed, this decision became the final order of the Commission 30 days later on May 7, 1973.
Thereafter Atlas petitioned for review of this order in the Court of Appeals and moved for and was granted a stay of the penalty by the Commission.
9 II.
The Constitutional Challenges When Is A Penalty A Fine?
One of petitioner's strongest points is that OSHA crosses that elusive line between criminal fines--that of necessity require the Sixth Amendment protections--and civil regulatory sanctions--that are left to fall back upon the more amorphous protections of due process.
These distinctions are elemental in our legal tradition, 10 but where a statute such as OSHA contains both monetary fines and penalties for conduct that are perhaps only arguably different in quality, the distinction becomes ambiguous indeed.
The distinctions are additionally blurred when Congress applies both types of enforcement measures to impose standards and regulate conduct in a relatively new arena such as employment safety and health.
That is precisely the problem we consider here.
This issue has importance even beyond the case at hand because the streamlined enforcement procedure embodied in OSHA, although presently prescribed in only a few instances, has been recommended as a blueprint for a major revision of the enforcement systems of all federal agencies.
11 Therefore, in view of the importance of the issue, we analyze it here in terms of (i) the criminal and civil enforcement procedures of OSHA, (ii) the congressional intent discernible from the face of the statute and the legislative history and (iii) the multiple test espoused by the Supreme Court in Kennedy v. Mendoza-Martinez .
12 The Enforcement Structure of OSHA Designed with the ambitious but socially laudable goal "to assure so far as possible every working man and woman in the Nation safe and healthful working conditions and to preserve our human resources," 13 OSHA applies to all workers employed in businesses that affect interstate commerce.
14 To accomplish this vast objective, Congress passed a labor safety standards form of administrative program.
Under OSHA, the Secretary of Labor (Secretary) is vested with the power to both promulgate and enforce compliance with the safety standards set for individual industries throughout the country.
As enforcement measures, OSHA provides for both civil and criminal penalties.
The Justice Department prosecutes employers in federal district court when job conditions are deemed to warrant criminal prosecution, but the Secretary enforces the civil penalties before the autonomous forum of the OSHRECOM.
15 Since Atlas challenges these specific civil enforcement procedures on the grounds that they violate Article III and the Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Amendments, close scrutiny of the nature and process of civil censure under these provisions is necessary.
The enforcement procedures of OSHA have three stages--citation, administrative hearing, and court review.
Each stage is distinct because unless the employer initiates the next level of review, the penalty becomes final and unreviewable.
The citation procedure begins when an inspector, acting in response to a complaint or on his own investigation, determines that the employer has violated either a specific safety standard or the general duty provision requiring the employer to provide a safe working environment.
16 The citation given by the inspector lists the nature of the violation as well as the time set for abatement.
17 Within a reasonable time thereafter, the Secretary shall assess and notify the employer of the penalty, if any, that will itself be based on the nature of the violation.
For initial violations of OSHA an employer may be subject to a $10,000 penalty for either (1) willful violations 18 or for violations that are determined to be serious, 19 i. e., " [have] a substantial probability that death or serious harm could result from a condition that exists unless the employer did not, and could not with the exercise of due diligence know of the presence of the violation."
20 Alternatively, criminal proceedings may be triggered by conditions that the Secretary considers both willful and serious and the employer shall upon conviction be subject to a fine of up to $10,000 and six months in jail.
21 On receipt of the Secretary's citation, an employer has 15 days to notify the Secretary that he intends to challenge the penalty 22 or the penalty becomes final and unreviewable.
Once such a challenge is made, the Secretary is required to initiate the administrative hearing by notifying OSHRECOM.
23 The ALJ conducts a full hearing 24 and thereafter makes a report that will itself become the final decision of OSHRECOM unless the parties seek and the Commission grants discretionary review.
25 Thereafter the final stage is review in the Court of Appeals and thereafter the discretionary review by the Supreme Court.
26 The Court of Appeals review is on the APA substantial-evidence-on-the-record considered as-a-whole-standard.
The Court, however, may direct the Commission to consider additional evidence if it is found that the evidence is both material and reasonable grounds existed for the failure to admit it in the hearing before the Commission.
27 One additional feature of OSHA that Atlas sharply contests is 659(b) .
This provision allows the Secretary retroactively to assess an additional non-abatement penalty for each day following the expiration of the initial abatement period whenever he determines that the employer did not initiate the review procedures (either before the Commission or the Court of Appeals) in good faith or did so only in order to avoid the penalties imposed.
On The Face Of OSHA The Government argues that OSHA successfully survives the Atlas Sixth Amendment attack because the provisions for civil and criminal enforcement specified in the statute are precise and distinct and, additionally, because the legislative history clearly demonstrates that Congress purposefully chose remedial rather than punitive consequences to accompany the civil provisions.
The Government naturally stresses the long accepted maxim that Congress may use either civil or criminal measures to control similar conduct.
But although Congress has enormous flexibility in the selection of enforcement measures, the existence of both civil and criminal alternatives does not alone suffice to validate the statute.
28 Similarly, the absence of any mention of punishment in the legislative history does not immunize the statute from further review.
29 Although acknowledging the seriousness of the potential penalties the one court that has presently considered these challenges to the statute has upheld it.
30 The criticism elicited by the statute, 31 and the enormous potential effects of a proliferation of OSHA-like enforcements systems are factors that persuade us that we should carefully scrutinize the statute against the case-law experience.
Functional Analysis Of Congressional Intent The starting place is the Supreme Court's decision in Kennedy v. Mendoza-Martinez 32 to test Congressional intent and permissible Congressional latitude in prescribing civil rather than criminal consequences.
The Court summed up the factors: 33 [I] "Whether the sanction involves an affirmative disability or restraint."
This first test gives some weight to Atlas' arguments because even though monetary penalties do not fit within the conventional definition of disability, 34 i. e., want of legal capability, they do inflict a pocket-book deterrence or restraint on the recipient.
[II] "Whether the sanction has historically been considered a punishment."
35 This is of little aid to Atlas.
While it is true, as Atlas argues, that fines have long been used as an alternative punishment, that argument, when used here, begs the question for civil monetary penalties have in a similar manner long been accepted where they served a remedial rather than a punitive function.
36 And we come full circle again to the question of the remedial function of the Act.
[III] "Whether the sanction is activated only upon a finding of scienter."
This gives Atlas little support for its argument.
While 666(b) , the provision under which Atlas was cited, appears superficially to be a "strict liability" provision imposing a mandatory penalty whenever an employer is cited for a serious violation, an employer may defend against such a charge on the grounds that he "did not, and could not with the exercise of reasonable diligence, know of the presence of the violation."
37 Of course, the fact that OSHRECOM may consider the good faith of the employer and previous violations in determining the appropriateness of the assessed civil penalty 38 does not orbit to the apogee of a suspected scienter factor.
But this is not a requirement analogous to the criminal law concept embraced in the conclusory "scienter" concept.
The employer has a defense if he did not nor should not have known.
But this is a far cry from limiting his obligations to situations in which he knowingly and intentionally acted or refrained from acting.
The statute itself expressly distinguishes between acts which on usual tort principles are charged to employers and those willfully done.
39 [IV] "Whether the statute promotes the traditional aims of punishment, retribution and deterrence."
40 This lends some weight to both sides.
In Atlas' favor, retributive effect may be seen in the statutory provisions that civil penalties shall be assessed according to the gravity of the violation.
41 Similarly, OSHA may be said to have a deterrent effect in the sense that the penalties assessed against the employers compel compliance with the safety standards.
But the government argues that deterrence is not the function solely of a criminal statute.
It contends that "remedial" means not only compensatory but a kind of prospective deterrence of a means to encourage compliance with the government regulation.
As examples it cites the extensive series of cases flowing from the seminal Oceanic Steam Navigation Co. v. Stranahan 42 for the proposition that the government may appropriately assess monetary penalties by administrative enforcement as a function of its absolute power--within Constitutional limits--to control matters within the competence of the National sovereign.
While these cases involve specific areas that have traditionally been considered the exclusive province of the federal government, such as tariffs and immigration, the government properly argues that there is no reason for so limiting their application.
In support of this the government cites numerous statutes permitting civil penalties to be imposed by the administrative agency for violations of its regulation or orders.
43 And when it comes to the factor of deterrence, the existence of over 200 million citizens most of whom are law abiding and who daily conduct their business and personal affairs without the fear of jail time or being tagged a felon, we know the greater efficacy of the much milder and less potent sanction of loss of license, civil penalties and the like.
Business is encouraged to comply with the law not only because that is what the law exacts but because failing to do so will bring down on the activity or purse noncriminal consequences.
[V] "Whether the behavior to which it applies is already a crime."
44 This fits squarely on the Government's side of the score board.
Although two sections of OSHA provide that the same conduct may be subject to both civil and criminal sanctions, 45 the remaining civil penalties are the sole enforcement measures provided under the Act.
Atlas argues, however, that as to corporate defendants who are not subject to imprisonment, the civil sanctions are effectively the same as the criminal fines.
But except in the one instance we noted, this argument appears to be incorrect especially if we consider Atlas' case as an example.
Atlas was charged with a serious violation carrying a mandatory penalty of up to a thousand dollars.
46 While we have no difficulty (as discussed later) in upholding the ALJ decision of violation, this record would not permit--and OSHRECOM does not assert--that the conduct of Atlas constituting a violation of the regulation would have permitted prosecution for criminal fines.
Additionally, Atlas throws in the outworn argument that OSHA fails under the criminal vs.
civil test because civil penalties are being imposed for what are essentially building code violations punishable by criminal sanctions under most state and municipal law.
Now in the Twentieth Century it is too late to assert that there is anything improper in the election by Congress to impose its own sanctions--civil, criminal or both--without regard to its treatment by other components of our federalism.
47 [VI] "Whether an alternative purpose other than punishment may rationally be ascribed to the sanction."
48 Actually, this factor is one which must be carefully restricted.
49 Unless caution is exercised, it puts the judiciary squarely in the middle of choices as to the kinds of remedies open and those most likely to achieve the legislative aim.
What do Judges know about hazards of industry save what they see in the tragic case after the event of death or injury?
Congress meant to put an end to the maiming or death of thousands.
What facilities do Judges have for making inquiry into or evaluating what is the method best calculated to bring about the saving of life and limb?
50 [VII] "Whether the sanction appears excessive when compared with the alternative purpose assigned."
51 While this certainly is a subjective factor, it is one that Atlas' arguments fail to hurdle as well.
The remedial functions obviously served by the civil penalties of OSHA may in many circumstances justify imposing the maximum penalties available under the statute.
These penalties will often be reduced by the mitigating factors that the imposing agency must consider in assessing the penalty.
52 For example, Atlas' own $600 penalty represents a reduction of $400 after the Secretary had considered the gravity of the offense, the size of the business, the good faith of the employer and the history of previous violations.
We cannot say that that penalty is excessive if in the considered judgment of the Administrative Agency it results in improved industrial practices that help to prevent future deaths from falls of employees of Atlas.
The Supreme Court was conscious in Kennedy v. Mendoza-Martinez that the test it announced might point in divergent directions, 53 but each test was considered relevant to a determination of the character of a statute.
While the civil penalties of OSHA are subject to scrutiny under several of these tests, taken as a whole, we think that Atlas has failed to demonstrate that Congress meant the statute to reprimand rather than regulate.
The focus of the statute--the control of job site safety practices and health conditions--has a demonstrable and legitimate government concern.
The fact that the civil enforcement sanctions are inherently disabilities does not alter the nature of the Congressional purpose.
54 And finally the Congressional purpose carefully to establish both civil and criminal sanctions and distinguishable procedures for imposing and reviewing them eliminate any question of Congressional intent.
As Judge Friendly puts it.
.
.
.
55 For those reasons Atlas, despite its strenuous efforts to show the punitive character of OSHA, must fail on this issue.
III.
The Seventh Amendment Challenge Failing the Sixth Amendment and Article III hurdle, Atlas further argues that even if the penalties are termed civil, the Seventh Amendment requires that Congress provide a system of enforcement that gives employers the opportunity to put their case before a jury in a de novo proceeding in the District Court.
56 As support, Atlas cites United States v. J. B. Williams Co. 57 in which the Second Circuit held that a defendant had the right to a trial by jury in an action brought by the Attorney General in the District Court under 15 U.S.C.A. 56 for violations of an F.T.C.
cease-and-desist order, and the dissenting opinion of Judge Gibbons in Frank Irey, Jr., Inc. v. OSHA , supra .
Williams , however, is readily distinguishable for there the only means of statutory enforcement was by way of the federal courts.
Where adjudicative responsibility rests only in the administering agency, "jury trials would be incompatible with the whole concept of administrative adjudication and would substantially interfere with the [agency's] role in the statutory scheme."
Curtis v. Loether , 1974, 415 U.S. 189 , 94 S.Ct. 1005, 1008 , 39 L.Ed.2d 260, 266 ; see also Pernell v. Southall Realty , 1974, 416 U.S. 363 , 94 S.Ct. 1723 , 40 L.Ed.2d 198 .
The Second Circuit in Williams was cognizant of this distinction and held merely that where the United States brings a traditional civil suit in the District Court juries must be provided.
That the civil sanction under attack is in the form of a dollar penalty is not a sufficient distinction to deny the power of Congress to prescribe an administrative, as distinguished from a judicial mechanism.
To so hold would produce the absurd spectacle of Congress--having full power to prescribe an administrative structure with sanctions of denial or revocation of a life-or-death license (see the large number of such statutes at note 43, supra )--being denied the power to prescribe a money fine of a single dollar or for that matter a single red sou.
IV.
Due Process Issue Atlas objects to the provisions of 29 U.S.C.A. 659(b) that--in the absence of a challenge by the employer--allows the Secretary's citation and penalty to become the final order of OSHRECOM.
The argument is that the employer's affirmative burden to initiate the adversary proceedings violates due process.
58 In support, Atlas cites Bell v. Burson , 1971, 402 U.S. 535 , 91 S.Ct. 1586 , 29 L.Ed.2d 90 ; Goldberg v. Kelly , 1973, 397 U.S. 254 , 90 S.Ct. 1011 , 25 L.Ed.2d 287 ; Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp. , 1969, 395 U.S. 337 , 89 S.Ct. 1820 , 23 L.Ed.2d 349 .
But Atlas misunderstands the focus of these decisions.
The essence of the Sniadach cases is not that the "aggrieved" person had to shoulder the burden of securing a hearing but that the detriment occurred first before any opportunity for a meaningful hearing was afforded.
Thus the question is--are there detriments imposed on employers under OSHA prior to the timing of the hearing?
Arguably, had we accepted Atlas' criminal penalties contention, the Secretary's citation itself could be said to carry criminal stigma but we have rejected that argument.
Consequently, the only real detriment to the employer is the monetary penalty which is only imposed after there has been an opportunity to be heard.
The Deep Freeze How Chilling?
Last among its constitutional challenges, Atlas argues that the overall penalty structure of OSHA violates due process because it "chills" the employer's right to seek review of the citation penalty.
Arguably, it does this in two ways: First, on review the OSHRECOM has authority to increase the penalty in consideration of such factors as ".
.
.
the good faith or the employer .
.
."
59 Thus, the OSHRECOM could theoretically use this power in the same "vindictive" manner forbidden by the Supreme Court in North Carolina v. Pearce 60 to punish by penalty increases under the bad faith rubric those employers who exercise their right to review.
Second, the possibility that--absent a stay--penalties will cumulate with each violation being considered a separate one for the entire period of the appeal if OSHRECOM finds that an earlier appeal to OSHRECOM or the Court of Appeals was not in good faith or solely for the purposes of delay or avoidance of penalties.
29 U.S.C.A. 666(d) .
We do not reach this for Atlas was not penalized by either of these provisions and under no circumstances could we on this record and briefs which represent the finest in quality and content conclude or even sustain a post-affirmance effort by the Secretary to find this appeal to have been ill-founded, even if to the advocate remaining still unconvinced, the effort was unavailing in result.
Atlas therefore simply has no standing to challenge these aspects of the statute.
Sierra Club v. Morton , 1972, 405 U.S. 727 , 92 S.Ct. 1361 , 31 L.Ed.2d 636 .
V. The Administrative Findings Finally, Atlas challenges the administrative determination that at the time of the accident its roof hole coverings violated either the statute or the regulations.
In the alternative Atlas contends: (i) that its means of hole covering complied with the intent of the statute which required that the coverings be ".
.
.
so installed as to prevent accidental displacement"; 61 (ii) the findings of the administrative hearing officer were not supported by substantial evidence; or (iii) even if the regulation was violated, no "serious" offense qualifying for civil penalties under 29 U.S.C.A. 666(b) and (k) actually resulted from the means of hole coverings used.
The ALJ determined that the opening covers used by Atlas--two bundles of insulation material of the same type then being laid over the roof by the Atlas employees--did not meet the requirements of the regulation that they be "so installed as to prevent accidental displacement."
However, Atlas urges that the regulatory phrase was intended only to encompass an advertent dislodging of the cover--an assertedly unlikely possibility here--but not an inadvertent removal of unsecured insulation by an employee who thought it was merely one of the many bundles of insulation scattered over the solid roof deck.
Reading the statute with its safety objectives in mind, we cannot accept any such distinction.
The Administrative Agency had ample basis to conclude that Atlas' method of covering the roof openings fits well within the language of the regulation.
It was a jury-rigged system which failed with the price of a human life.
We are not, nor would we wish to be, and our own system would suffer if we were, infused with "roofing prescience" to enable us to conclude, as Atlas urges, that the possible confusion by this temporary employee between these hole-covering bundles and those strewn around the roof deck was "accidental."
Finally, the result--death--answers fully the contention that there was no "serious violation" of 29 C.F.R. 1926.500(b)(1) committed resulting in a civil penalty under subds.
(b) and (k) of 29 U.S.C.A. 666 .
Atlas cites the exception to 666(k) that excludes from a "serious violation" a situation where the employer "did not, and could not with the exercise of reasonable diligence, know of the presence of the violation."
Essentially, this was a question of fact for which the administrative triers had ample basis to conclude that Atlas should have known of the presence of the violation.
Affirmed.
