 TALBOT SMITH , Senior District Judge.
The complaint before us seeks that we declare that the original "boundaries of the [Rosebud Indian] reservation as fixed by the 1889 Act, were not affected by the three 'surplus' land statutes of 1904, 1907, and 1910."
1 It follows, according to plaintiff's (hereinafter the Tribe's) theory that the areas involved, namely, all or parts of the Counties of Gregory, Tripp, Lyman and Mellette, in the State of South Dakota, remain a part of the Rosebud Reservation and are subject to the appropriate federal and tribal powers and jurisdiction.
2 As originally delimited the Rosebud Indian Reservation contained over 3 million acres.
Three-fourths of this area, all the original reservation outside Todd County, South Dakota, is involved in this action.
The three Acts we are asked to construe disposed of all lands in this area which were not allotted to the Indians.
3 Most of the unallotted lands were sold to homesteaders under the terms of the three Acts.
About ninety percent of the present population in the disputed area is non-Indian.
4 The defendants Kneip and Mydland, the Governor and Attorney General of South Dakota, assert that the area involved was settled and developed by non-Indians in partial reliance upon the removal of their lands from the exterior boundaries of the reservation, 5 and that the Acts in question were intended to and did effectuate the alteration of the reservation boundaries to exclude the areas therein opened for settlement.
The court below rejected the Tribe's tendered theories in support of its argument that the boundaries of the reservation as defined in the Act of March 2, 1889 had not been changed.
It held that the surrounding circumstances and legislative history of the Acts made it clear that it was the congressional intent to separate each of the counties concerned and to extinguish the reservation status of those counties.
Rosebud Sioux Tribe v. Kneip , 375 F.Supp.
1065 (D.S.D.1974).
We agree and we affirm.
In view of the many authorities cited to us, we deem it pertinent to note at the outset that they are of limited utility and we comment only on those deemed relevant to decision herein.
Save as to broad generalities the holding in any particular case will depend upon circumstances applicable to that case, including among others, specific treaty or statutory provisions.
Secretary Ickes, in his foreword to Cohen's Handbook of Federal Indian Law , speaks of "the complexity of the body of Indian law, based upon more than 4,000 treaties and statutes and upon thousands of judicial decisions and administrative rulings, rendered during a century and a half."
6 Obviously, separate treaties and agreements with separate tribes must be separately construed.
It is clear from the reported cases that, despite numerous differences in specific fact situations, the overriding judicial inquiry remains unchanged, namely, the congressional intent.
Thus in Seymour v. Superintendent , 368 U.S. 351, 356 , 82 S.Ct. 424, 427 , 7 L.Ed.2d 346 (1961), in holding that the 1906 Act of Congress there involved did not extinguish the Colville Indian Reservation, the Court relied repeatedly on materials from which it "seem[ed] clear that the purpose of the 1906 Act was neither to destroy the existence of the diminished Colville Indian Reservation nor to lessen federal responsibility for and jurisdiction over the Indians having tribal rights on that reservation."
Mattz v. Arnett , 412 U.S. 481, 505 , 93 S.Ct. 2245, 2258 , 37 L.Ed.2d 92 (1973) utilizes the same test for disestablishment, namely, "A congressional determination to terminate expressed on the face of the Act or clear from the surrounding circumstances and legislative history."
We are aware of course, that much modern thinking respecting the culture and welfare of the Indians is at marked variance with that of the period we now survey, that around the turn of the century.
But we do not sit to rewrite the legislation of decades past.
We look to the congressional intent when it was written viewing the totality of the circumstances from the record in its entirety.
The Tribe urges the lack of "express language extinguishing tribal title, or placing the land in the public domain, or altering the boundaries of the reservation."
But here the Tribe misapprehends the applicable criteria.
7 Precise verbal formulae of extinguishment or alteration of boundaries, however apt or helpful, are not a sine qua non of disestablishment.
We seek, as we said, the congressional intent, which may be variously expressed.
Our guidelines were most recently stated in DeCoteau v. District County Court , 420 U.S. 425, 444 , 95 S.Ct. 1082, 1092-93 , 43 L.Ed.2d 300 (1975) wherein it was held: United States v. Celestine 215 U.S. 278 30 S.Ct. 93 54 L.Ed. 195 McClanahan v. Arizona State Tax Comm'n 411 U.S. 164, at 174 93 S.Ct. 1257, at 1263 36 L.Ed.2d 129 Carpenter v. Shaw 280 U.S. 363, at 367 50 S.Ct. 121, at 122 74 L.Ed. 478 Mattz v. Arnett 412 U.S., at 505 93 S.Ct. at 2258 Seymour v. Superintendent 368 U.S. 351 82 S.Ct. 424 7 L.Ed.2d 346 United States v. Nice 241 U.S. 591 36 S.Ct. 696 60 L.Ed. 1192 Mattz v. Arnett supra Seymour v. Superintendent supra It is clear from DeCoteau that our inquiry may encompass all materials reasonably pertinent to the legislation, 8 including the debates thereon and official correspondence with respect thereto, and administrative treatment of the area; 9 as well as those bearing upon the historical context of its passage, such as the social forces then at work in the area and particularly the demands of our westward moving society arrayed against the contesting demands of the Indians for their culture and support.
10 The original Rosebud Reservation was an area of great extent.
Subsequent to its delineation, however, the "familiar forces" above noted came into operation.
Gregory County, in particular, "had been anxious to acquire that portion of the Rosebud Reservation within its boundaries, ostensibly because the county government could not be maintained by the number of settlers on the small amount of non-reservation land available within it.
After nearly two years, the county obtained the assistance of the very able congressional delegation from South Dakota, and under their direction the processes of acquisition were set in motion."
11 Opposed to such acquisition, however, stood not only the reservation area as fixed under the 1889 Act but, indeed, the way of life of the Sioux: 12 Obviously adjustments between these competing forces had to be made.
It was Inspector McLaughlin who was assigned the first step in the desired acquisition of Gregory County, that of reaching agreement with the Sioux.
He describes his mission, and its attainment, in the following terms: 13 The Rosebud Reservation was one of the smaller reservations 14 which had been carved out of the Great Sioux Reservation by the Act of March 2, 1889.
15 Section 12 of this Act provides: Provided, however 25 Stat. 892.
Inspector McLaughlin, in early 1901, proceeded to the Reservation to undertake negotiations with the Indians.
As he explained it to them on September 5, 1901: The cession of Gregory County will leave your reservation a compact, and almost square tract, and would leave your reservation about the size and area of Pine Ridge reservation 16 Similar representations were made to other groups of Indians.
Thus on April 13 to the Ponca Creek District of the Rosebud Reservation: for this corner of the reservation relinquish their allotments and remove to the reservation diminished reservation If you dispose of this surplus land it will leave you about the same sized reservation as the Pine Ridge Indians have By disposing of this little corner of the reservation, it would leave you a nice, square reservation 17 Likewise to the Indians of the Big White River District on April 15, 1901: or of relinquishing it and removing to the diminished reservation 18 Response, in part, was made by Ralph Eagle Feather in the following terms: diminished reservation 19 Upon such representations and with such understandings, agreement was reached, on September 14, 1901, with the required three-fourths adult male Indians.
20 The agreement provided in substance for a cession of unallotted land within Gregory County in return for a lump-sum payment by the Government.
21 The language employed, "cede, surrender, grant and convey" leaves no doubt as to its meaning.
There is a complete relinquishment of right, title, and claim.
"It would be impossible," we have held of the words "ceded, conveyed, transferred, relinquished and surrendered," "to select words operating more completely to extinguish every vestige of Indian title, and releasing the government more absolutely from every obligation, moral as well as legal."
22 So here.
In fact the Tribe concedes that had the Congress adopted a bill simply ratifying the Agreement, "Indian title to the 'surplus' land would have been extinguished."
The negotiated Agreement, however, was never ratified.
23 The problem in the Congress was not jurisdiction, title, or boundaries.
It was, simply put, money.
The problem was first put thus by Senator Platt, who proposed to abandon the "free-homes" policy: 35 Cong.Rec.
3188 (1902).
Further discussion in the same vein is found in 35 Cong.Rec.
4801-02 (1902): The question is whether the Government, in opening the lands to settlement, shall give the lands thus purchased from the Indians to the settlers under the homestead law, or whether it shall require the settlers who take up these lands under the homestead law to pay for them a sum per acre equivalent to what the Government pays the Indians for them Senator Clapp opposed the Platt amendment, stating in part: 35 Cong.Rec.
4807 (1902).
Although the Platt amendment was defeated in the Senate, 24 the ratification bill languished in the House "because of the fact that it provided that the Government should pay for the lands outright."
25 New bills were introduced and reported from committee in both chambers which proposed "to adopt a new policy in acquiring lands from the Indians [by] providing that the lands shall be disposed of to settlers *, and to be paid for by the settlers, and the money to be paid to the Indians only as it is received from the settlers."
26 The Senate bill passed, but the 57th Congress expired before the House could give it consideration.
27 Thereafter, in June 1903, Inspector McLaughlin was instructed to return to the reservation to negotiate a new agreement in light of the "new departure" proposed by the latest Senate bill.
28 He explained the changes to the Tribe in the following terms: 29 30 31 I am here to enter into an agreement which is similar to that of two years ago, except as to the manner of payment *.
You will still have as large a reservation as Pine Ridge after this is cut off 32 33 34 Inspector McLaughlin succeeded in obtaining a majority (though not three-fourths) consent to the new method of payment, provided that the price to homesteaders be raised from $2.50 to $2.75 per acre.
35 Within nine months Congress passed a ratification bill which amended the 1901 Agreement solely with respect to the method of payment.
36 As a substitute for the lump-sum payment by the United States, 37 the 1904 Act provided that the Government would receive funds from the settlers as trustee for the Indians.
38 Homesteaders were to pay substantially higher prices than those provided in the 1903 Agreement, 39 to insure that the Indians would receive as much under the new method as provided in the 1901 Agreement.
40 The Tribe stresses to us the lack of a three-fourths majority Indian consent to the 1904 Act (as well as the 1907 and 1910 Acts), referring at times to "unilateral" actions by the Congress.
It should be noted, in this regard, however, that in January, 1903 the Supreme Court decided Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock , 187 U.S. 553 , 23 S.Ct. 216 , 47 L.Ed. 299 (1903).
The case concerned the validity of a cession of tribal lands enacted in contravention of a treaty requiring three-fourths Indian consent.
The Court held: power 187 U.S. at 566, 568 , 23 S.Ct. at 221, 222 (Emphasis in original).
The effects of this decision, we note, were explained to the Indians by Inspector McLaughlin in 1903, 1906, and 1909.
41 Consequently, it was clear that the vote of three-fourths of the adult male Indian population was no longer required as consent to cession of any portion of the Rosebud Reservation.
42 The 1904 Act, incorporating the entire text of the 1901 Agreement (save for the lump-sum provision) passed under the circumstances detailed in part heretofore, was obviously an outgrowth of and a continuation of the objectives of the 1901 Agreement.
The terminology employed, language of diminution and extinguishment, was used interchangeably with respect both to the proposed ratification of the 1901 Agreement and the passage of the 1904 Act.
43 Nowhere do we find, in the legislative history or materials from the period, any indication in substantial support of the claim now made by the Tribe that the exterior boundaries of the Reservation were to be left undisturbed despite the cession of the County of Gregory.
The point at issue was method of payment for the land.
Such was the subject of the extended discussion and debate.
As for the reservation land itself, Gregory County was to be thrown open to settlers, and the reservation pro tanto extinguished.
It is significant that from the inception of the negotiations preceding the original agreement reached, through those undertaken by Inspector McLaughlin upon his return with the proposed amendment, the parties were negotiating in terms that left no doubt that actual diminution was involved.
The above-quoted language, "[y]ou will still have as large a reservation as Pine Ridge after this is cut off," "negotiating with you [Indians] for this corner of the reservation," "relinquish their allotments and remove to the reservation," "the diminished reservation," "leave you a nice, square reservation" "removing to the diminished reservation," "disposing of this little corner of the reservation" and "leave your reservation a compact, and almost square tract about the size and area of the Pine Ridge reservation," admits of no other conclusion.
Whatever question there may be as to the proper interpretation of "diminished," that is, whether it means diminution by the carving out of a described area with concomitant change of boundaries, or a diminution by sale of lots to non-Indians without changing the boundaries, 44 upon the facts before us it is clear that the parties contemplated a carving out process.
Such descriptions of the effect of the negotiations, found in both pre-agreement and post-agreement materials as we have cited above, are persuasive as to intent.
We observe, moreover, in this regard, the Supreme Court's recent and like employment of the term "diminished reservation" as involving a necessary and corresponding adjustment of reservation boundaries in a carving-out situation: United States v. Pelican 232 U.S. 442 34 S.Ct. 396 58 L.Ed. 676 DeCoteau , supra , 420 U.S. at 446 , 95 S.Ct. at 1094 .
The Court's suggestion that the parties "would have been better advised to have carved out a diminished reservation, instead of or in addition to the retained allotments" is particularly appropriate to the facts before us in view of the 1904 Act under which, from the Tribe's original reservation, "all that part of the Rosebud Indian Reservation now remaining unallotted, situated within the boundaries of Gregory County" was ceded, granted and conveyed to the United States, 45 clearly thus having "carved out a diminished reservation," leaving the Tribe with an "almost square tract," with necessarily altered boundaries.
The school lands provision of the 1904 Act is also relied upon by the defendants as showing congressional intent to disestablish Gregory County.
The argument, applicable as well to the 1907 and 1910 Acts, infra , stems from the provisions of the Act of February 22, 1889, ch.
180, 25 Stat. 676, admitting the Dakotas into the Union.
In pertinent part the Act provides as follows: and to make donations of public lands to such States nor shall any lands embraced in Indian reservations be subject to the grants until the reservation shall have been extinguished 25 Stat. 676, 679 (Emphasis added).
Section 4 of the 1904 Act provides in part: 33 Stat. 258.
The provision may be traced to a Senate committee amendment to the original ratification bill.
46 As Senator Gamble explained the amendment: 35 Cong.Rec.
3187 (1902).
Similarly, in a colloquy between Congressman Finley and Congressman Burke, like explanation was made: 38 Cong.Rec.
1423 (1904).
Further explanations of similar tenor will be found in both House and Senate reports.
47 In the light of the above there can be no reasonable doubt that it was the congressional intent to extinguish the reservation in Gregory County.
The Tribe argues that the school lands grant in the South Dakota enabling act would operate automatically upon the extinguishment of a reservation and that since Congress thought it necessary in the 1904 Act to grant school lands to South Dakota, the reservation must not have been extinguished.
But we cannot ignore the legislative history outlined above from which it is clear that Congress included the provision to implement the grant in the enabling act and for no other reason.
Thus the action of Congress in passing section 4 of the 1904 Act was premised solely upon an understanding that the reservation would be extinguished, and is persuasive that such is the effect of the Act.
48 The argument of the Tribe that under the 1904 Act, as well as the 1907 and 1910 Acts, the Indian title to the lands "was not extinguished" rests in part upon the theory that under such Acts "the United States acted as trustee to dispose of the land and credit the proceeds to the Tribe."
Thus, it is argued, Tribal title to the land was not extinguished, the Rosebud Reservation was not reduced by the said Acts, and the boundaries thereof were not altered.
The argument made will not withstand analysis in the light of the realities of the situation confronting the Congress at the time.
The land was needed for settlement.
The problem, as we have noted, involved payment therefor.
It could be paid from the Treasury in a lump-sum as in DeCoteau , supra , where, after some per capita distribution, the balance was placed in trust, 49 or it could be placed in trust as received from the settler-purchasers, as here.
50 Judge Bogue, in the Cook case, employs the apt terminology of "certain-sum-in-trust" method as opposed to "uncertain-sum-in-trust" 51 Obviously, the Indians retain certain beneficial rights in both cases.
If authority is needed therefor it is supplied by the Ash Sheep case. 52 But the fact that a beneficial interest is retained does not erode the scope and effect of the cession made, or preserve to the reservation its original size, shape, and boundaries.
The determination of disestablishment as we stated at the outset, rests upon congressional intent, as to which the method of payment, whether lump-sum or otherwise, is but one of many factors to be considered.
Thus it was that the trust involved in DeCoteau had no more conclusive effect than the one here under consideration.
It was our holding in United States ex rel.
Condon v. Erickson , 478 F.2d 684, 687 (8th Cir. 1973), which we here reiterate, that the changed method of payment above described "was simply a new method utilized by a Congress that no longer favored purchasing Indian lands and providing them free of cost to settlers."
What had happened was simply that the Congress was through with purchasing Indian lands at great cost and providing them free to settlers.
Thereafter the settlers would have to pay their way.
The purchase money would inure to the benefit of the Indians, of course, and be held in trust for them, but the record is barren of any disclosed intention thereby to preserve intact the area of the original reservation and its boundaries.
Such an intention is utterly foreign to the entire tenor of the contemporary materials before us.
The land was being thrown open for farming.
The settlers were emigrating in great numbers to the new land in the West, buying their farms and planting their crops.
The Indian reservations were being eroded, not preserved.
The final reports on the 1904 Act leave no doubt as to the congressional meaning and intent: is really only a corner of the reservation, which will be left compact and in a square tract 53 Our conclusions with respect to Gregory County are further supported by subsequent developments which culminated in the passage of the 1907 and 1910 Acts, to a consideration of which we will now proceed.
54 The forces at work for the opening of the Indian lands were not made quiescent by the Gregory cession.
By 1906 the pressures for the opening of additional Indian lands in South Dakota were again being felt in the Congress.
Responsive thereto, in early December, 1906, Senator Gamble and Congressman Burke, both of South Dakota, introduced separate bills providing for the opening of Tripp County.
55 Inspector McLaughlin was once again instructed to "enter into negotiations with the Rosebud Indians for the cession of the surplus unalloted land in Tripp County, South Dakota."
The instructions continued, "You are familiar with the situation there and for this reason it is not deemed necessary to give instructions in detail for conducting the negotiations.
The following would seem to be fair terms, similar to those in the disposal of the ceded lands in Gregory County, S.D.
*."
56 Committee action on the bills was delayed pending the outcome of the negotiations, 57 which were conducted by the Inspector at Rosebud Agency on December 14, 15, 19 and 20, 1906 and again on January 17, 18 and 21, 1907.
58 The bill introduced by Congressman Burke formed the framework of the discussions.
59 To its proposals the Indians drafted counter proposals, providing, inter alia , for higher prices to homesteaders and for the accumulation of proceeds in an interest bearing fund.
60 A final agreement was reached January 21, 1907 and was ultimately signed by a majority (though not three-fourths) of the eligible Indians.
61 Article I of the 1907 Agreement provides that the Indians, 62 The United States was to purchase the school lands outright, and to act as trustee for the sale of the remaining lands to homesteaders at specified prices.
63 Provision was made for completing and changing the allotments to Indians, and for the disposition of the proceeds (including accumulation in an interest bearing fund).
64 The Secretary of the Interior recommended that Congress ratify the Agreement, 65 and on February 18, 1907 the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs reported a ratification bill as a substitute for the original Gamble bill.
66 By this time, however, the House had already debated and passed a second Burke bill which incorporated substantially the terms of the agreement without reference to it.
67 Senator Gamble immediately steered the House bill through the Senate 68 and it passed without debate, with, however, an amendment which provided for five percent instead of three percent interest on the accumulated fund in conformity with the 1907 Agreement.
69 The Senate receded from its amendment in conference, 70 and the bill became law March 2, 1907.
71 As noted, the House bill was not in form a ratification of the 1907 Agreement.
72 In place of the Agreement's language of cession quoted above, the Act provides that the "Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed, as hereinafter provided, to sell or dispose of" the described unallotted lands.
73 With the exception of the reduction of the interest rate from five to three percent, the substantial terms of the Agreement are contained verbatim in the Act.
74 The Act contains additional language granting the school lands to the State of South Dakota, 75 and appropriating funds for the purchase of the school lands and for making the allotments provided therein. 76 The 1907 Act is, in substance, identical to the 1904 Act: Congress directs that, with the exception of school lands, the unallotted lands in the described tract be offered for sale to homesteaders at specified prices; 77 the United States is to act as trustee for the Indians to dispose of said lands and to collect and dispense the proceeds; and the United States is to purchase and convey the school lands to the State of South Dakota.
Nothing in the language of the 1907 Act or in the surrounding circumstances and legislative history indicates a change in that congressional determination to alter the reservation boundaries which we have found in the 1904 Act.
78 This continuity of purpose was expressed by Congressman Burke on the floor of the House: a reservation that is substantially 50 miles square 41 Cong.Rec.
3104 (1907) (Emphasis added).
The continuity is further evidenced by the House and Senate Reports which note that the "sale and disposition of the lands in Gregory County have proven very satisfactory" and are substantially completed.
79 These reports also cite as precedent supporting the school lands provision, all prior acts opening reservations in South Dakota (including the 1904 Gregory County Act).
80 The 1907 Act was clearly presented to Congress generally as one of a series of bills effecting the sale of Indian reservations, and specifically as a continuation of the process of diminishing the Rosebud Reservation begun with the 1904 Gregory County Act.
It is evident as well that this continuity was perceived by the Rosebud Indians.
As the trial court observed, "[i]t is difficult for one to read the transcript of the negotiations in 1906 without feeling that this was merely a continuation of the original negotiation in 1901 which culminated in the Gregory County act, the 1904 Act, discussed above."
81 We need simply note that the 1907 Agreement is similar in form to the 1901 Agreement, was negotiated between the same parties, and contains similar language of cession.
Further, the language and legislative history of the 1907 Act affirmatively indicate that the Act was intended to alter the reservation boundaries.
That Gregory County was no longer considered within the boundaries of the reservation is clear from the description of the tract to be sold or disposed of under the 1907 Act, the purpose of which was "to authorize the opening and sale of that portion of the Rosebud Reservation in South Dakota known as Tripp County."
82 Said tract is described as: 83 Not only Tripp County, but Gregory County would fall within this description unless it (Gregory County) was not considered a "portion of the Rosebud Indian Reservation."
It clearly was not.
As the House and Senate reports state: was 84 These materials concerning the description of the tract affected by the 1907 Act not only provide a contemporaneous and authoritative construction of the 1904 Act which supports our interpretation thereof, but also directly indicate, in light of the continuity discussed above, that the 1907 Act was similarly intended to further constrict the boundaries of the Rosebud Reservation.
This intent was given firm expression by Congressman Burke during the House debate, whose remarks are unambiguous: 85 The allotment provisions of the 1907 Act are asserted by the Tribe to support its position against disestablishment.
The 1907 Act, provided, with respect to allotments, as follows: 1907 Act 2, 34 Stat. 1230.
The Tribe argues that the provision respecting allotments "anywhere within said reservation," which then included Tripp County, clearly negates a congressional intent "to dissolve the reservation status of the Tripp county portion of the reservation" since, it argues, had dissolution been intended, Congress "hardly would have provided for 160 acre allotments anywhere on the reservation, including Tripp county."
The argument stems from a misinterpretation of the legislative history.
Inspector McLaughlin's letter of instructions from the Commissioner of Indian Affairs stated that: 86 The Inspector, in negotiating with the Indians, accordingly informed them of their rights to reallotment anywhere on the reservation, 87 and the specific mention of Tripp County in this connection was to remedy, "before the opening of Tripp County," the prior taking of poor land.
There is no negation here of congressional intent to disestablish.
The entire tenor of the negotiations and the contemporary documents are consistent with a congressional intent to extinguish the reservation status of the County rather than the contrary.
After careful review we conclude that the language, legislative history and circumstances surrounding the passage of the 1907 Act, like the 1904 Act, clearly indicate a congressional determination to terminate the reservation in the counties affected by the Act.
88 Continued pressure for additional land, the "march of progress and civilization westward" in the language of the times, resulted in the passage of the Act of May 30, 1910, ch.
260, 36 Stat. 448.
Unlike the 1904 Act and the 1907 Act, the 1910 Act was not preceded by formal negotiations and agreement with the Rosebud Indians.
In the waning months of the 60th Congress Senator Gamble introduced and reported from committee a bill to open all the unallotted lands in Mellette County and in a strip of land in the eastern part of Todd County.
89 The bill was reported favorably despite the opinion of the Secretary of the Interior that "the views of the Indians should be procured before the bill is finally acted on," and his recommendation "that the strip of land on the east of the present diminished reservation should [not] be opened yet."
90 Senator Gamble was unable to obtain the Senate's consideration of the bill before the term of Congress expired, 91 but shortly thereafter, in March and April, 1909, Inspector McLaughlin conducted discussions with the Rosebud Indians concerning the Gamble bill.
At first the Indians were opposed to the bill, 92 but later many expressed a willingness to part with Mellette County, provided the terms were favorable.
93 They remained opposed, however, to the opening of the eastern part of Todd County.
94 Inspector McLaughlin did not seek to negotiate an agreement with the Indians, but reported to the Secretary of the Interior his opinion that a "large majority" of the Rosebud Indians were favorable to the opening of Mellette County under the provisions of the Gamble bill.
95 Both Congressman Burke and Senator Gamble introduced bills in the 61st Congress similar in purpose to the original Gamble bill.
96 In January, 1910 the Secretary of the Interior recommended that only Mellette County be opened but not the eastern part of Todd County.
97 He also proposed the inclusion of a provision (which will be hereinafter discussed) prohibiting the introduction of intoxicants into the affected lands.
98 The Senate bill was reported and passed with amendments implementing the Secretary's proposals.
99 It then passed the House with amendments and, after conference to reconcile House and Senate differences not material here, the bill became law May 30, 1910.
100 The 1910 Act is substantially similar to the 1907 Act.
Its operative language is identical: 101 The lands affected are those in the present day Mellette County, which lies north of Todd County and west of Tripp County.
It was provided that after allotments within the affected area had been completed, the lands should be opened to settlement and entry under the general homestead and town-site laws by proclamation of the President.
102 Unlike the 1907 and 1904 Acts, which fixed the prices to be paid by homesteaders, the 1910 Act provided for the classification and "appraisement" of the lands, and for their sale at the appraised prices.
103 It also provided for the surveying of town-sites and the sale of town lots.
104 The Act also contained the familiar school lands provision by which the United States purchases and grants to South Dakota two sections in each township for the use of the common schools.
105 As in the 1904 and 1907 Acts, the United States was not otherwise obligated to purchase, but was to act as trustee for the purpose of sale and to collect and disburse the proceeds.
106 The 1910 Act contains two further provisions which, because of their language and history are of peculiar relevance to the problem before us.
The first, a proviso in section 1 of the Act, permits an Indian who has taken an allotment "on the tract to be ceded" to substitute therefor an allotment "on the diminished reservation."
107 The second, section 10 of the Act, subjects the affected tract for twenty-five years "to all the laws of the United States prohibiting the introduction of intoxicants into the Indian country."
108 These provisions will be discussed more fully below.
Again, we find nothing in the language of the 1910 Act or in the surrounding circumstances and legislative history which indicates a change in that congressional determination to alter the reservation boundaries which we have found in the 1904 and 1907 Acts.
109 We deem it unnecessary to detail in extenso the legislative history and surrounding circumstances evidencing the general continuity of purpose among the Rosebud acts.
110 The sponsors of the 1910 Act placed the bill in the context of the westward expansion which began with the breakup of the Great Sioux Reservation: 111 The only change in policy 112 noted during the debates was the change in the method of payment which was instituted with the 1904 Act.
113 McLaughlin's new name, " The man who bothers his friends for more land ," attests to the continuity as perceived by the Rosebud tribe.
Further, there are clear indications in the legislative history of the 1910 Act that Congress understood that the 1904 and 1907 Acts had altered the reservation boundaries and that such would be the effect of the bill before it.
114 Significantly, the Tribe offers no explanation of how the boundaries of the reservation could remain inviolate while the area contained therein was shrinking from 3,000,000 acres to 1,000,000 acres as outlined in the House report: H.R.Rep.No.429, 61st Cong., 2d Sess.
2 (1910).
115 We agree with the trial court 116 that this statement affords strong support for the conclusion that the three acts before us altered the reservation boundaries.
117 We have discussed heretofore the school lands provision of the 1904 and 1907 Acts.
The provision before us, section 8 of the 1910 Act, is substantially identical to those of 1904 and 1907.
It was similarly justified as required to "keep good the pledge" in the South Dakota enabling act, 118 and is further evidence that the 1910 Act was intended to extinguish the Reservation in Mellette County.
119 Two other provisions unique to the 1910 Act, the substitute allotment provision and the intoxicants provision, confirm this conclusion.
Section 1 of the 1910 Act contains the following proviso: Provided 36 Stat. 449.
The Tribe urges that "diminished reservation" refers to Mellette County; 120 it argues that this proviso and the clause requiring the completion of allotments in Mellette County 121 indicate an intent to continue Mellette County as a reservation.
In the light of the history of this legislation, and its background, 122 we do not think the fact that Indian allottees would continue to live in Mellette County is persuasive to the point that the county would remain within the reservation.
Further we find that the phrase "diminished reservation" in context is distinguished from "the tract to be ceded," and that it clearly refers to Todd County, the remaining unopened reservation.
123 This statutory use of the phrase "diminished reservation" confirms our view that the reservation was "diminished" in a geographical sense (by an alteration of the boundaries) and not in the weaker sense urged (by the loss of tribal title to lands remaining within the reservation).
124 We also find it significant that although the 1910 Act does not contain the language of cession found in the 1904 Act, it nevertheless refers to Mellette County as "the tract to be ceded."
Evidently Congress had not changed its purpose and still considered the 1910 Act to effect a cession of Indian lands.
Section 10 of the 1910 Act provides: 125 In 1910 there was an outstanding federal prohibition against the introduction or attempted introduction of intoxicants into "Indian country."
126 The trial court held that thus subjecting the Mellette County land to the liquor proscription applicable to "Indian country" manifested a congressional intent that the County would henceforth not be Indian land, since, if it were, there would be no need for the proscription.
127 The court also noted the power of Congress to impose liquor restrictions on ceded lands adjoining Indian country in order to prevent white-Indian border traffic in liquor.
128 The Tribe takes the contrary view, arguing principally that in view of the 1910 construction of "Indian country," Section 10 was intended not to diminish but to enlarge "the protection attaching to the reservation."
Assuming, arguendo only, a possible ambiguity in the statute, we turn again to the legislative history for the congressional intent.
Section 10, modeled after the provision in a congressionally ratified cession agreement with the Nez Perce Indians which was upheld by the Court in Dick v. United States , 208 U.S. 340 , 28 S.Ct. 399 , 52 L.Ed. 520 (1908), 129 was vigorously debated in the House. 130 Its opponents contended that under In re Heff , 197 U.S. 488 , 25 S.Ct. 506 , 49 L.Ed. 848 (1995) 131 the provision was ultra vires since the Rosebud Indians, by taking allotments, had become citizens of the United States subject to the laws of South Dakota and free from the police power of Congress.
132 The proponents, on the other hand, considered the provision a valid condition on the sale of the land and were corrected when they referred to the land as on or within the boundaries of the reservation: You must also bear in mind that when the lands are sold there is no longer a reservation But if the lands are allotted it is no longer an Indian reservation If the lands are allotted it will be no longer an Indian reservation.
If the land is sold it will be no longer an Indian reservation.
It is where, as I understand, the Indian has always lived and where he is going to live, and I believe in keeping the sale of liquor out of his neighborhood 45 Cong.Rec.
5463-64 (1910) (Emphasis added).
It is highly significant that the proponents of the Section 10 acceded to the contention that the lands would no longer be an Indian reservation, and justified their position with the same argument used in Dick , supra --that the lands were in the neighborhood of the Indian where he would be likely to frequent.
133 There can be no doubt here as to intent.
Both sides are explicit "that when the lands are sold there is no longer a reservation."
Section 10 and its legislative history reflect a congressional understanding that the effect of the 1910 Act would be to terminate the reservation status of the Mellette County lands.
What we find here is the continuation of the policy, heretofore adopted and implemented, of reducing the size of the Rosebud Reservation in order to make a portion of its lands available to the new settlers.
Again, the congressional motivations are clear, as is its intent.
134 The Tribe has sought that we declare that the Acts of 1904, 1907, and 1910 did not alter the boundaries of the Rosebud Reservation as fixed by the General Crooks treaty of 1889.
This we cannot do.
We have reviewed with care the pressures for opening, 135 the legislative histories of the Acts, their content, provisions, and contemporaneous construction, as well as their subsequent treatment and interpretation.
Against this background it is clear beyond reasonable question that the Acts were passed with the intent of doing away with the Reservation in those portions affected by the opening of the lands for entry and settlement.
The boundaries were thus necessarily altered.
The problems before the Congress at the turn of the century with respect to the western lands permitted no easy solutions.
The choices were difficult but they were made by the representatives of the people and it is not our function to fashion a wiser course under the guise of interpretation.
Affirmed.
