 BRIGHT , Circuit Judge.
This income tax controversy arises from a series of complex documents which purport to effect a sale of a bank building (not including the underlying land) by a bank to taxpayer, Frank Lyon Company, and a 65-year leaseback with options to purchase the building by the bank.
The question presented is whether these transactions vested taxpayer with ownership of the building for tax purposes so as to entitle taxpayer to deduct from its income the tax shelter benefits of depreciation of the building and interest paid on the building mortgage loan.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue ruled that taxpayer did not possess ownership of the building for tax purposes and denied taxpayer these tax advantages.
Taxpayer paid the deficiency and successfully sued for a refund in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas.
The Government thereafter brought this appeal.
We reverse, and sustain the Government's position.
Taxpayer acquired its interest in the building in question from the Worthen Bank and Trust Company of Little Rock, Arkansas (Worthen).
In 1965, Worthen entered negotiations for the purchase of land in downtown Little Rock on which to construct a new bank building.
When such land was purchased, Worthen drew up plans for the new building and entered into construction contracts.
Worthen initially intended to finance the construction itself and to retain ownership of the building.
However, federal and state banking regulations forbade Worthen to carry such an expensive building as an asset on its own books.
Worthen thereupon decided to adopt a sale-leaseback arrangement using a newly-formed, wholly-owned corporate subsidiary to hold title to the building.
However, Worthen learned that debt financing for such a subsidiary could not be arranged.
In 1967, Worthen informed banking authorities that it had decided upon a sale-leaseback arrangement with an independent investor.
This approach satisfied the applicable state and federal banking regulatory agencies.
Worthen then obtained a verbal commitment from First National City Bank of New York (FNCB) for interim construction financing.
A similar commitment for long-term financing of the building was obtained from New York Life Insurance Company.
The long-term financing was conditioned upon approval by New York Life of the party nominated by Worthen to hold title to the building.
Worthen then commenced arm-length negotiations with several investors.
Taxpayer Frank Lyon Company learned of these negotiations and informed Worthen of its interest.
Frank Lyon, chairman of the board of taxpayer company, served on Worthen's board of directors and Frank Lyon Company does substantial business with Worthen.
Worthen's proposal to the investors specified that construction would cost approximately $7,500,000.
After some negotiation, Worthen narrowed the field of potential investors down to taxpayer and one other party.
Worthen then proposed that the investor selected should supply an ownership "equity" of $500,000, which would bear "interest" at the rate of six percent per year.
The remaining financing would be supplied to the investor by the prearranged mortgage from New York Life at the rate of six and three-quarters percent, payable in 25 years.
Worthen would lease back the building from the investor under the conditions discussed below and would retain an option to repurchase at the end of the 11th, 15th, 20th, and 25th years at specific amounts, plus an assumption of the New York Life mortgage.
If Worthen did not purchase the building during the 25-year primary term, it would have eight additional options to extend the lease, each for a five-year period (40 years total).
Worthen would agree to execute a 75-year ground lease for the land under the building (ownership of which Worthen retained) to the investor, and to subject the adjacent parking facility (of which Worthen also retained ownership) and certain building furnishings and equipment to the New York Life mortgage.
Worthen retained the rights to the investment tax credit and sales tax savings generated by the building project.
Taxpayer was selected by Worthen as the investor when it agreed to accept these terms and additionally agreed to reduce Worthen's building lease payments by $21,000 per year for the first five years.
It later developed that New York Life would not accept assignment of a lease incorporating this rental reduction.
Worthen and taxpayer then entered a lease at the rental originally proposed but by separate agreement provided for some additional benefits to accrue to Worthen in an independent transaction.
1 Thereafter, taxpayer, Worthen, First National City Bank, and New York Life Insurance Company entered into various leases, assignments, notes, and agreements effective May 1968 and December 1969, whereby Worthen "sold" its building as it was constructed to taxpayer and Worthen then "leased back" the building from the taxpayer.
2 The ultimate sale price of the Worthen building to taxpayer amounted to $7,640,000, of which New York Life furnished all but $500,000 through its mortgage.
This mortgage was secured by a first deed of trust executed by taxpayer and Worthen which conveyed to New York Life title to the land, building, and a parking facility.
As additional security, taxpayer, assigned to New York Life its interest in the building lease and ground lease.
By separate agreement with New York Life, Worthen consented to this assignment and agreed not to terminate the building lease as long as the mortgage remained outstanding.
Worthen's annual rent for the first 25 years of the building lease represents the exact amount necessary to fully amortize the 25-year, $7,140,000 New York Life mortgage.
3 Should Worthen exercise its option to purchase during the primary term of 25 years, taxpayer would receive a net cash amount equal to its $500,000 "equity" investment plus six percent compounded interest.
Should Worthen elect not to purchase the building and to continue paying rent for the potential additional 40-year life of the lease (eight extensions of five years), the rental payments provided will approach but not equal taxpayer's $500,000 investment compounded at a six percent rate.
4 As we have already noted, Worthen retains an option to repurchase the building at the end of 11, 15, 20, and 25 years at the exact amount of taxpayer's investment of $500,000 in the transaction, compounded at six percent per annum, plus assumption of the unpaid balance of the New York Life mortgage.
We observe in this connection that the first option period occurs after the first 11 years of the lease during which income tax savings to taxpayer from interest and depreciation will amount to about $1,500,000.
Thereafter, taxpayer would reap no tax benefits from ownership.
Increasing amounts of the rental received from Worthen and passed on to New York Life would apply to the principal of the mortgage, rather than to interest, and hence would be nondeductible.
At the same time, allowable depreciation on the building would not equal the non-interest portion of the rent.
The net result would be taxable income to taxpayer.
The various terms of the lease provide that essentially all costs, risks, and responsibilities rest with Worthen.
For example, Worthen bears all repair and maintenance expense, all public utility charges, mechanics' liens, taxes and levies of every sort, and all insurance expenses, including property, liability, fire, war risk, and sprinkler and boiler damage.
Worthen also must indemnify the lessor for any claim arising out of the operation of the building and repair any damage or destruction.
By the terms of the lease, the rent is absolutely net to the taxpayer (and hence to New York Life) without allowance for any counterclaim, setoff, or defense by the lessee, and is to be paid without notice, demand, counterclaim, setoff, or defense lessee might otherwise assert.
Worthen's obligation to make payment of rent to taxpayer is not affected by any damage or destruction to the building.
Interestingly, any condemnation or insurance proceeds resulting from total destruction apply in the following order: (1) to New York Life in an amount sufficient to fully prepay the mortgage; (2) the balance to taxpayer up to the amount provided as the purchase price in the termination table (amortizing taxpayer's $500,000 investment at six percent); and (3) any excess to Worthen.
Worthen has the option to either replace the building or to purchase it in the event there is a partial condemnation or total destruction on or after December 1, 1980.
5 On taxpayer's corporate income tax return for 1969, taxpayer reported the payments by Worthen under the building lease as rental income, and claimed deductions for depreciation on the Worthen building, interest paid on the interim and permanent mortgage loans, and other expenses it had borne with respect to the construction of the building.
Upon audit of the taxpayer's return for 1969, the Commissioner determined that for federal tax purposes the taxpayer was not the owner of the Worthen building, but that the real ownership in the building as a matter of economic substance was retained by Worthen.
The Commissioner's notice of deficiency denied taxpayer's claimed deduction for depreciation, interest, and other expenses with respect to the construction of the building but eliminated the rental income reported by taxpayer for the lease of the building.
Taxpayer thereafter paid the deficiency, filed a claim for refund, and upon its denial, brought the instant action.
As previously noted, the district court granted relief.
Although the court made findings of fact, the essence of its holding is expressed in the court's unreported letter opinion of May 16, 1975, as follows: The taxpayer emphasizes that the trial court's findings of intent resolve a question of fact and bind us on appeal unless "clearly erroneous."
Taxpayer points to our prior ruling that Western Contracting Corp. v. Commissioner 271 F.2d 694, 699 Numerous other cases support the view that intent is an important consideration.
See American Realty Trust v. United States , 498 F.2d 1194 (4th Cir. 1974); Breece Veneer & Panel Co. v. Commissioner , 232 F.2d 319 (7th Cir. 1956); Benton v. Commissioner , 197 F.2d 745 (5th Cir. 1952).
The Government responds that the ultimate question of ownership of property as it affects taxability rests upon a substantially undisputed record and must be reviewed as a question of law.
See American Nat.
Bank of Austin v. United States , 421 F.2d 442, 451 (5th Cir.), cert. denied , 400 U.S. 819 , 91 S.Ct. 36 , 27 L.Ed.2d 46 (1970); Union Planters Nat.
Bank of Memphis v. United States , 426 F.2d 115 (6th Cir.), cert. denied , 400 U.S. 827 , 91 S.Ct. 53 , 27 L.Ed.2d 56 (1970).
Both parties' positions are partially correct.
It is our duty to ascertain the economic substance of transactions in order to determine their characterization for tax purposes.
Helvering v. F. & R. Lazarus & Co. , 308 U.S. 252 , 60 S.Ct. 209 , 84 L.Ed. 226 (1939).
Since parties are generally free to dispose of property interests as they wish, the substance of a transaction usually derives from the parties' intent.
Subject to certain policy considerations, the courts will respect the actual allocation of interests made by the parties even though it reduces or eliminates tax liability.
Helvering v. F. & R. Lazarus & Co. , supra ; Gregory v. Helvering , 293 U.S. 465 , 55 S.Ct. 266 , 79 L.Ed. 596 (1935).
In major transactions, the intent of the parties is usually spelled out in written form.
Where the documents embodying the transaction are clear and complete, the court is called upon to interpret the documents, and from their substance, to characterize the transaction for tax purposes as a matter of law.
See American Nat.
Bank v. United States , 421 F.2d 442 (5th Cir. 1969), cert. denied , 400 U.S. 819 , 91 S.Ct. 36 , 27 L.Ed.2d 46 (1970).
However, where the documents are ambiguous or incomplete, the court must first ascertain the unexpressed subjective intent of the parties in order to properly interpret the agreement and thus disclose its substance.
See and compare Helvering v. F. & R. Lazarus & Co. , supra ; Western Contracting Corp. v. Commissioner , supra ; Benton v. Commissioner , supra .
The court's determination of the parties' unexpressed subjective intent is a finding of fact.
This inquiry may be assisted by the labels such as "lease" or "sale" which the parties have used in describing the transaction, but other factors are also significant and sometimes controlling.
However ascertained, this subjective intent is of importance only to the extent that it affects the actual allocation of interests, not in spite of that allocation.
We made this clear in Western Contracting Corp. v. Commissioner , supra , where we said the following: Id. at 699 quoting Oesterreich v. Commissioner 226 F.2d 798, 809 In this case the allocation of interests between parties is spelled out in undisputed written documents.
Characterization of the transaction for tax purposes requires us to "reason and interpret" these documents.
American Nat.
Bank v. United States , 421 F.2d 442, 451 (5th Cir. 1970).
As the Fifth Circuit said, this "is the law obligation of the court as distinguished from its fact finding duties."
Id. , quoting United States v. Winthrop , 417 F.2d 905 (5th Cir. 1969).
We examine the issue of ownership by examining the respective rights held by the parties.
In the common law sense, property rights can be analogized to a bundle of sticks.
Each stick represents an interest in the underlying res which is the object of property.
Certain commonly occurring bundles have been given conventional "labels" such as "lease" or "license."
Frequently, the express agreement of the parties to a transaction will not specify the allocation of each stick.
In such a case, the fact that the parties choose a particular label such as "lease" to describe the transaction may be a reliable guide to the allocation of sticks intended, although other indications of intent may modify or even supersede the labels employed.
The determination of who got which bundle of sticks may require a determination of subjective intent and thus a preliminary finding of fact.
However, except to the extent that subjective intent affects the allocation of the sticks, it is simply immaterial to the characterization of the transaction for tax purposes.
Once the contents of each bundle is found, its tax characterization is strictly a question of law independently reviewable on appeal.
In this case the Government concedes that all parties intended to apply the label "sale-leaseback" to the transaction.
However, the Government contends that this label has no real-world significance because every meaningful interest in the building was clearly possessed by Worthen by the agreement of the parties.
In essence, the Government alleges that taxpayer totes an empty bundle and that the term "owner" for tax purposes cannot reasonably be attached to the empty wrapping taxpayer has retained.
Taxpayer responds that it cannot be assumed that Worthen will exercise its option to purchase and thereby reimburse taxpayer for its initial $500,000 investment plus accrued interest.
Taxpayer further argues that if the purchase options are never exercised, it will eventually suffer the economic loss of depreciation and obsolescence of the building.
It is at this point that the ultimate issue is joined.
The question for this court is whether, giving due deference to the underlying factual determinations of the district court, the taxpayer has demonstrated that it possesses sufficient genuine interests in the property to establish its legal right to be considered the owner for tax purposes.
To resolve this question, we turn to the documents and undisputed testimony which establish the following allocation among the contracting parties of the benefits and burdens generated by the building.
6 We do not doubt that the Worthen bank drove a hard bargain.
It suffered no significant economic detriment by allegedly not owning the building since it asserted the right to deduct lease payments from current income.
Nor did the terms of the lease deprive it of any significant benefit of ownership.
However, the lease did satisfy the technical requirements of the banking regulations.
By contrast, the taxpayer seeks to be considered as the owner for the sole purpose of reaping a benefit from the tax laws of the United States which allow an owner of property to deduct both depreciation of an asset and interest payments upon the purchase mortgage.
The overall nature of this transaction is closely akin to that in Helvering v. F. & R. Lazarus & Co. , supra .
There the taxpayer was the seller-lessee, occupying essentially the same position as Worthen in the present case. The taxpayer had assigned title to two properties and a 99-year lease to a third to a bank and at the same time had leased the properties back for 99 years with an option to renew the lease and to purchase the properties.
The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the tax court which found that the taxpayer was the real owner of the properties.
The Court characterized the bank's interest as an owner-lessor as essentially that of a mortgagee.
It held that "[i]n the field of taxation, administrators of the laws and the courts are concerned with substance and realities, and formal written documents are not rigidly binding."
Id .
308 U.S. at 255 , 60 S.Ct. at 210 , 84 L.Ed.at 230 .
Nothing in the Court's opinion places any emphasis on the parties' desired characterization of the transaction for tax purposes.
The Government also points to the tax treatment afforded the taxpayers in Commissioner v. H. F. Neighbors R. Co. , 81 F.2d 173 (6th Cir. 1936), and Frito-Lay, Inc. v. United States , 209 F.Supp.
886 (N.D.Ga.1962).
Taxpayer here attempts to distinguish those cases factually and takes comfort in their language which places some emphasis upon the parties' intent.
However, the intent found by the courts in those cases accorded with and contributed to the economic substance of the transactions.
For example, in Frito-Lay , the court expressly stated that the intent of the parties was a "guide" to the true nature of the transaction, 209 F.Supp.
at 891 , not a component thereof.
In this case, as we have already held, the asserted "intent" to effect a sale-leaseback for tax purposes is not a guide to the economic substance of the transaction, but instead appears to be wholly unrelated to the actual allocation of interests.
Taxpayer's reliance upon American Realty Trust v. United States , 498 F.2d 1194 (4th Cir. 1974), is misplaced.
The arrangement there was not nearly so thin and transparent as the present transaction.
In sum, the benefits, risks, and burdens which taxpayer has incurred with respect to the Worthen building are simply too insubstantial to establish a claim to the status of owner for tax purposes.
Taxpayer's claim to a depreciation allowance as owner of the Worthen building must be disallowed.
The interest deduction here also turns upon the ownership of the building.
The record is clear that the real security for the mortgage is the building and the party with the real interest in maintaining the mortgage payments is Worthen.
In effect, we sustain the Government's position that taxpayer served as a mere conduit for the mortgage payments made by Worthen to New York Life.
The Commissioner properly did not charge taxpayer with rental income in the receipt and transmission of these funds.
In closing, we note what our opinion does not do.
First, what we have said relates only to the tax status of the Frank Lyon Company.
Worthen is not a party to this appeal.
Our opinion in no way affects Worthen's relationship to the Worthen building, as recognized by federal and state banking regulations.
Second, our opinion should not be read as a general condemnation of sale-leaseback arrangements.
They are an accepted and useful means of controlling business property.
As taxpayer argues, many of the features of the lease in this case have been held not to terminate tax ownership when viewed independently.
The vice of the present lease is that all of these features have been employed in the same transaction with the cumulative effect of depriving the taxpayer of any significant ownership interest.
Accordingly, we reverse the judgment of the district court and remand this case for the entry of an appropriate judgment not inconsistent with this opinion.
