 HEANEY , Circuit Judge.
We review an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission exempting from the prohibition of 17(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.
, the proposed merger of Christiana Securities Company into E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company.
The Commission granted the exemption after finding the merger terms to be reasonable and fair and free from overreaching on the part of anyone concerned within the meaning of 17(b)(1) 1 of the Act.
We reverse because: (1) The Commission's order is premised on the erroneous view that Christiana should presumptively be valued on the basis of the market value of its principal asset, common stock of Du Pont.
(2) The record as a whole does not support the Commission's finding that the terms of the merger are reasonable and fair and free from overreaching on the part of anyone concerned.
I. STATEMENT OF UNDERLYING FACTS.
Christiana is a closed-end, non-diversified management investment company 2 registered with the Commission pursuant to the Act.
It was created in 1915 as a device by which members of the du Pont family could concentrate their large holdings in Du Pont and maintain control of that company.
3 The family members contributed their Du Pont stock to Christiana in exchange for Christiana shares.
Christiana now holds 13,417,120 shares of Du Pont common stock, representing twenty-eight and three-tenths percent (28.3%) of the issue.
4 It has outstanding 11,710,103 shares of its common stock and 106,500 shares of its preferred stock.
Seventy-five percent (75%) of Christiana stock is held by members of the du Pont family.
Ninety-five and five-tenths percent (95.5%) of Christiana's stock is held by three hundred and thirty-eight (338) holders of one thousand (1,000) or more shares each.
The remaining four and five-tenths percent (4.5%) is owned by some seven thousand six hundred (7,600) shareholders.
Christiana's stock has historically sold at a discount from the market price of Du Pont common stock.
Over the two years preceding the date on which the merger negotiations were announced, the discount generally ranged from twenty to twenty-five percent (20-25%).
On the date of announcement, the discount was twenty-three percent (23%).
The Du Pont stock owned by Christiana has a low or zero tax basis.
Du Pont is an industrial company principally engaged in manufacturing and selling diversified lines of chemical and other related products.
It has 47,445,810 shares of common stock outstanding, which are broadly and continuously traded on the New York Stock Exchange and other exchanges.
These shares are owned by over 225,000 shareholders.
On April 20, 1972, Irénée du Pont, Jr., President of Christiana Securities Company, wrote to Mr. C. B. McCoy, President of Du Pont, suggesting a merger of Du Pont and Christiana.
5 As a result of this letter, negotiating committees were appointed by Du Pont and Christiana.
Mr. McCoy, Chairman and President of Du Pont, and Irving Shapiro, Chairman of the Finance Committee of Du Pont, were named to represent Du Pont.
Edward B. du Pont and A. Felix du Pont were named to represent Christiana Securities Company.
On June 6, 1972, the special negotiating committees jointly retained Morgan Stanley & Co., the Du Pont committee retained First Boston Corporation and the Christiana committee retained Kidder, Peabody & Co., Incorporated, as financial advisers.
Each financial adviser was asked to recommend a range of terms for exchange of Christiana common stock for Du Pont stock that was, in its opinion, reasonable and fair.
Preliminary reports were made by the financial consultants at a joint meeting of the special committees on June 30, 1972.
The final written reports were submitted on July 6 and 7, 1972.
Each financial adviser recommended merger terms that approximated Christiana's net asset value.
6 An agreement to merge was reached by the two negotiating committees on July 6, 1972, and approved by the Board of Directors of both corporations in principle on July 17, 1972.
A formal plan of reorganization and agreement of merger was signed on December 20, 1972.
The merger agreement provides for the issuance of Du Pont common stock equivalent in value to ninety-seven and five-tenths percent (97.5%) of Christiana's net assets after adjustment.
7 Each share of Christiana is to be exchanged for 1.123 shares of Du Pont.
The preferred stock of Christiana can be converted into Du Pont common stock or redeemed pursuant to Delaware statutory procedures at $120 per share, plus accrued dividends.
Common stock holders will also have appraisal rights under Delaware law.
Christiana and Du Pont submitted a joint application to the Commission for permission to merge on July 20, 1972.
Notice of application was published on October 3, 1972.
Thereafter, the protesters in this action and others filed a request for a hearing.
A hearing was held before an Administrative Law Judge between February 5 to 13, 1973.
The matter was argued in July, 1973.
The Commission released its findings and opinion on December 13, 1974.
It concluded that the statutory requirements as to reasonableness and fairness had been satisfied.
The Commission subsequently denied the petitions filed by Messrs.
Collins and Murtaugh seeking a rehearing and a petition by Murtaugh for leave to adduce additional evidence.
Collins filed a petition for review with this Court on February 7, 1975.
Murtaugh filed a similar petition with the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit on February 10, 1975.
Murtaugh's petition was transferred to this Court pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 2112(a) .
In reviewing the Commission's order, we are guided by the principle that the order is not to be disturbed unless it is predicated on an erroneous view of the law or is based on factual findings not supported by substantial evidence on the record as a whole.
15 U.S.C. 80a-42(a) ; Securities and Exchange Com.
v. Chenery Corp. , 332 U.S. 194, 207 , 67 S.Ct. 1575 , 91 L.Ed. 1995 (1947).
II.
THE COMMISSION TOOK AN ERRONEOUS VIEW OF THE LAW.
We first turn to the question whether the Commission erred in holding, as a matter of law, that Christiana should be valued at the approximate value of its net assets (the market value of the Du Pont stock held by it).
The Commission stated: can normally be presumed to be worth its net asset value Christiana Securities Company , Investment Company Act Release No. 8615 (December 13, 1974) at 23.
This statement, which appears to state a rule of law rather than a rebuttable presumption, 8 was central to the issuance of the exemptive order.
It was the basis of the Commission's denial of the protester's Petition for Rehearing and Leave to Adduce Additional Evidence 9 as well as the argument stressed by the General Counsel for the Commission in its brief 10 and at oral argument.
11 The departure from net asset value reflected in the two and five-tenths percent (2.5%) discount was accepted only because of the "striking disparity between the substantial benefits to be received by Christiana and the far more modest ones inuring to Du Pont", and because it did not "divest Christiana's stockholders of a significant portion of the intrinsic investment values to which they are legally and equitably entitled."
Christiana Securities Company , supra at 25-26 .
A. The plain language of the Act does not permit the Commission to establish a rule of law that closed-end, non-diversified companies should be presumptively worth the value of their net assets.
12 The Act was drafted with a good deal of specificity.
In effectuating its remedial purposes, we will not give it a construction that strains its plain meaning.
See Willheim v. Murchison , 342 F.2d 33, 42 (2nd Cir.), cert. denied , 382 U.S. 840 , 86 S.Ct. 36 , 15 L.Ed.2d 82 (1965).
Section 17(b)(1) provides: if evidence establishes We read the section to require the Commission to find affirmatively that the terms of each merger are reasonable and fair, a requirement that must be fulfilled even though there are no protesters to the merger.
13 As was said in Grace v. Ludwig , 484 F.2d 1262, 1268 (2nd Cir. 1973), cert. denied , 416 U.S. 905 , 94 S.Ct. 1610 , 40 L.Ed.2d 110 (1974): evidence The section does not limit the considerations relevant to the approval of a merger to the preservation of the net asset value of the investment company.
The Commission argues, however, that this result obtains when 17(b)(1) is read in conjunction with 2(a)(41)(B) .
The latter section states: Provided But 2(a)(41)(B) is not by itself operative, for it neither proscribes nor requires particular conduct.
It is only definitional, giving meaning to the term "value" when used in the operative sections of the Act.
See, e. g. , 3(a)(3) , 10(d)(4) and 18 .
It is not made operative by 17(b)(1) which speaks in terms of "fairness" and not "value."
Had Congress intended the construction advanced here by the Commission, there would have been no need to require the Commission to find merger proposals reasonable and fair on the basis of the evidence presented.
Congress could have simply decreed that a merger of a closed-end, non-diversified investment company into its portfolio affiliate is reasonable and fair when the investment company is valued at or close to its net asset value.
Congress did not do so.
Further, 2(a)(41)(B) defines the value of an investment company's assets and not its stock.
In this readjustment of the ownership of Du Pont stock, we look to the value of what the Christiana shareholders are giving in the exchange, considering the net asset value of the company as one relevant factor.
The Commission's reliance on 23(b) to support its position is also misplaced.
That section states in its relevant part: Again, the statute does not by its terms apply to the transaction here, for Christiana is not selling any stock of which it is the issuer.
The harm intended to be remedied by the statute was the issuance of investment company common stock to favored persons at less than true value resulting in the dilution of the ownership equity of the existing shareholders.
See Jaretzki, The Investment Company Act of 1940 , 26 Wash.U.L.Q.
303 , 328 (1941).
That harm is not present here.
The Supreme Court addressed itself to this point recently: Kern County L. Co. v. Occidental Petroleum , 411 U.S. 582, 594-595 , 93 S.Ct. 1736, 1744 , 36 L.Ed.2d 503 (1973).
Accord , Willheim v. Murchison , supra at 42 .
The Commission's discussion of 23(b) treats Christiana as an open-end investment company.
Christiana is a closed-end company and, unlike its counterpart, its shareholders have no statutorily protected means to redeem their stock and receive their proportionate share of the company's net assets.
Cf. 15 U.S.C. 80a-22(e) ; U. S. v. National Assn.
Securities Dealers , 422 U.S. 694 , 95 S.Ct. 2427 , 45 L.Ed.2d 486 (1975).
Unlike the stock of an open-end company, the stock of Christiana actively trades in a secondary market that has historically imposed upon sellers a discount from net asset value.
This discount is an economic fact affecting the value of its stock and cannot be ignored in determining what is reasonable and fair.
In economic fact, the shareholders of Christiana do not own the assets of their company.
They, like the shareholders of any other corporation, own only a pro rata share of the assets and the income derived therefrom. 14 See Jaretzki, The Investment Company Act of 1940 , supra at 304-305 .
It is the current worth of the Christiana stock given in exchange for the Du Pont stock that must be determined in order to pass on the reasonableness and fairness of the merger.
B. The legislative history of the Act is consistent with the view that the Commission must look to the value given and received by the respective shareholders to a merger and may not conclusively presume that mergers based on the net asset value of a closed-end, nondiversified investment company are reasonable and fair.
That history envisions that the Commission's rulings under 17(b)(1) will be preceded by an inquiry into the relevant facts that is both thorough and independent.
Speaking to the effects of the absorption of one company's assets into another, whether by merger, consolidation or sale of assets, the Commission said: of the stockholders SEC, REPORT ON THE STUDY OF INVESTMENT TRUSTS AND INVESTMENT COMPANIES: ABUSES AND DEFICIENCIES IN THE ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF INVESTMENT TRUSTS AND INVESTMENT COMPANIES, H.R.
Doc.
279, 76th Cong., 1st Sess.
(1939-1940) at 1411 (emphasis added).
And in identifying the evils to be remedied, the report continued: Id. at 1427-1428 .
Subjecting proposed plans of merger to the scrutiny of independent review was found necessary because the presumption of the state statutes that " the directors of the several corporations involved in negotiations for a merger are acting at arm's length in an endeavor to secure the best possible bargain for their respective stockholders " was untrue in practice.
Id. at 1414 (emphasis added).
The Commission made other relevant comments: Id. at 1414 .
Id. at 1422 (footnote omitted).
Id. at 1423 .
Thus, the Act requires prohibited transactions to be shown in advance of their execution to be reasonable and fair and not the product of overreaching by any person.
See Securities & Exch. Com'n v. Advance Growth Capital Corp. , 470 F.2d 40, 42-43 (7th Cir. 1972).
The thrust of the section, as evidenced by its legislative history, is that the Commission must require merger proposals to be within the range that arm's-length bargainers would agree to if they were negotiating the terms of the merger.
The Commission states that the absence of arm's-length bargaining "matters not."
We disagree.
We do, however, agree with the Commission that, because of the relationship of the parties, the Act places its primary concern on the fairness of the results of the negotiating process.
But "fairness" is a relative term; and in judging transactions between dominant and subservient parties, the test is "whether or not under all the circumstances the transaction carries the earmarks of an arm's length bargain."
Pepper v. Litton , 308 U.S. 295, 306-307 , 60 S.Ct. 238 , 84 L.Ed. 281 (1939) (footnote omitted).
15 It is only scrutiny of this character that will provide the protections under the Act intended by Congress and it is this that the Commission failed to do here.
16 C. The Commission's prior decisions lend little support to its holding that Christiana should be valued exclusively on the basis of its net assets.
No cases, either cited to us or found by our independent research, holds that method of valuation proper as a matter of law.
To the contrary, in those cases where the applicants or the Commission has stated that the respective net asset values of the merging corporations were the principal basis for the merger exchange ratio, other factors relevant to the issue of reasonableness and fairness were considered: Townsend Corporation of America , Investment Company Act Release No. 4045 (September 2, 1964) (earnings); Harbor Plywood Corporation, et al.
, 40 S.E.C.
1002 (1962) (liquidation value, market price and dividends); Century Investors, Inc., et al.
, 40 S.E.C.
319 (1960) (earnings and dividends); New York Dock Company et al.
, 38 S.E.C.
754 (1958) (dividends and market value); International Mining Corporation, et al.
, 37 S.E.C.
209 (1956) (market price); Central States Electric Corporation , 30 S.E.C.
680 (1949) (capital gains taxes on the unrealized appreciation of assets).
17 Other cases cited to us and relied upon by Christiana and Du Pont for the stated rule of law are perfunctory approvals of applicants' proposals decided without contest or hearing.
See Huyler's , Investment Company Act Release Nos.
5773, 5809 (August 13 and September 9, 1969); Eastern States Corporation , Investment Company Act Release Nos.
5693, 5711 (May 28 and June 16, 1969); Southport Commercial Corporation , Investment Company Act Release Nos.
4165, 4180 (February 17 and March 5, 1965); Detroit and Cleveland Navigation Company , Investment Company Release Nos.
3082, 3099 (July 27 and August 19, 1960).
As such, they can be given little weight in determining whether the stated and relied upon rule of law is a valid one.
See Securities and Exchange Com'n v. Sterling Precision Corp. , 393 F.2d 214, 220 (2nd Cir. 1968).
Applicants cite Delaware Realty and Investment Company et al.
, 40 S.E.C.
469 (1961), as supportive of the Commission's decision.
There, the Commission approved, without hearing, the merger of Delaware Realty, also a closed-end, non-diversified investment company, into Christiana.
In doing so, it gave the greatest weight to the net asset values of the merging corporations.
It reasoned: Id. at 473 .
This record does not show that other viable alternatives are available for Christiana to realize its net asset value.
See infra at 598, 599.
Also cited are Christiana Securities Company , Investment Company Act Release No. 4876 (March 15, 1967) and Christiana Securities Company , Investment Company Act Release No. 4155 (January 28, 1965), where the Commission approved an exchange of Christiana common stock for the stock of Hercules Incorporated and General Motors Corporation, respectively.
They are perfunctory approvals, granted without a statement of reasons, and are, therefore, entitled to little weight.
In other cases, not cited to us by the applicants or the Commission, proposed merger terms based principally on the respective market values, with consideration also given to dividends, earnings and net asset value, have been found to be reasonable and fair.
Electric Bond and Share Company , Investment Company Act Release No. 5215 (December 28, 1967), was decided after public hearing in which protesters argued that the terms were unfair to both companies.
The terms provided for the merger of American & Foreign Power Company, Inc., into Electric Bond and Share.
We quote the Commission's conclusion: Id. at 20 .
The Commission's approach to the issue of the reasonableness and fairness of the merger is strikingly different from that espoused here.
Economic and not legal considerations were found dispositive.
See also Southeastern Capital Corporation , Investment Company Act Release Nos.
4110, 4133 (December 23, 1964 and January 12, 1965) (merger based on the market and asset values of the respective companies approved by the Commission without hearing).
We further note that in Tally Industries, Inc. , Investment Company Act Release No. 5953 (January 9, 1970), the Commission declined to grant an exemption order under 17(b)(1) , finding the pro forma after merger earnings and dividends to be inadequate to one of the constituent companies.
Again, factors other than net asset value were found determinative.
The Commission's method of valuing investment companies has not been consistent, perhaps reflecting the fact that each case turns upon its particular facts.
See generally C. Bosland, VALUATION THEORIES AND DECISIONS OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (1964).
Thus, we are not here confronted with a consistent interpretation of the Act by the agency charged with its enforcement meriting deference by a reviewing court.
See U. S. v. National Assn.
Securities Dealers , supra , 422 U.S. 694 , 95 S.Ct. 2427 , 45 L.Ed.2d 486 at 504 ; County of Marin v. United States , 356 U.S. 412, 420 , 78 S.Ct. 880 , 2 L.Ed.2d 879 (1958).
Moreover, we are unaware of any decision of the Commission that applied the stated rule of law which was subsequently approved by a reviewing court.
18 It, thus, appears that the Commission's argument that valuation is a legal question is not only new to this case, but is unsupported by its own precedent or that of a reviewing court.
D. The practice under similar statutory standards developed in the judicial supervision of corporate reorganizations also militates against acceptance of the Commission's position.
In construing the "just and reasonable" standard under the Transportation Act of 1940, 49 U.S.C. 1 et seq.
, the Supreme Court said: 19 Schwabacher v. United States , 334 U.S. 182, 198-199 , 68 S.Ct. 958, 967 , 92 L.Ed. 1305 (1948) (citations omitted).
Accord , Securities and Exch. Com.
v. Central-Ill. Sec. Corp. , 338 U.S. 96, 129 , 69 S.Ct. 1377 , 93 L.Ed. 1836 (1949) (review under the "fair and equitable" standard of the Public Utility Holding Company Act, 15 U.S.C. 79k(e)) .
We believe the inquiry under the Act must be similar.
The desires of Christiana shareholders to realize the net asset value of their company, not protected by statute or contract, are not determinative.
The reasonable and fair standard of the Act requires that economic and not legal doctrine guide the Commission's inquiry.
See Schwabacher v. United States , supra , 334 U.S. at 200 , 68 S.Ct. 958 ; Moulded Products, Inc. v. Barry , 474 F.2d 220, 225-226 (8th Cir.), cert. denied , Stockholders Protective Committee for Moulded Products, Inc. v. Barry , 412 U.S. 940 , 93 S.Ct. 2779 , 37 L.Ed.2d 400 (1973); Nanfito v. Tekseed Hybrid Co. , 473 F.2d 537, 541 (8th Cir. 1973).
The inquiry must be both independent and thorough, giving consideration to all factors affecting the value of what the Christiana shareholders are contributing to the merger.
20 See TMT Trailer Ferry v. Anderson , 390 U.S. 414, 442 , 88 S.Ct. 1157 , 20 L.Ed.2d 1 (1968); Securities and Exch. Com.
v. Central-Ill. Sec. Corp. , supra , 338 U.S. at 144-145 , 69 S.Ct. 1377 ; Schwabacher v. United States , supra , 334 U.S. at 201 , 68 S.Ct. 958 ; Consolidated Rock Products Co. v. Du Bois , 312 U.S. 510, 526 , 61 S.Ct. 675 , 85 L.Ed. 982 (1941); Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products Co. , 308 U.S. 106, 115 , 60 S.Ct. 1 , 84 L.Ed. 110 (1939).
The rule in tax law is also contrary to the Commission's view that the issue of proper valuation can be determined on legal, and not economic, principles.
Treas.Reg.
20.2031-1(b) United States v. Cartwright , 411 U.S. 546, 550-551 , 93 S.Ct. 1713, 1716 , 36 L.Ed.2d 528 (1973).
See also Hamm v. C.I.R.
, 325 F.2d 934, 937 (8th Cir. 1963), cert. denied , 377 U.S. 993 , 84 S.Ct. 1920 , 12 L.Ed.2d 1046 (1964); O'Malley v. Ames , 197 F.2d 256, 258 (8th Cir. 1952); Weber v. Rasquin , 101 F.2d 62, 64 (2nd Cir. 1939).
Such a price necessarily accounts for all factors relevant to value.
21 Paulina Du Pont Dean v. Commissioner , 19 TCM 281 (1960), and Mary A. B. Du Pont et al., Executors v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue , 38 B.T.A.
926 (1938), further illustrate this principle.
In Paulina Du Pont Dean , the issue presented was the value of four thousand (4,000) shares of Nemours Corporation for gift tax purposes.
Nemours owned stock in Delaware Realty and Investment Company which owned stock in Christiana, Du Pont and Hercules Powder Co. Christiana owned stock in Du Pont, General Motors Corporation, Wilmington Trust Company and the News-Journal Company.
The court valued Christiana at 79.42% of net asset value, Delaware Realty at eighty-six percent (86%) of its net asset value and Nemours at eighty percent (80%) of its net asset value, for a cumulative discount of fifty-four and six-tenths percent (54.6%) discount.
The discounted value of Delaware Realty and Nemours reflected primarily the consideration given to their earnings, dividends and taxes.
In valuing Christiana, the court stated: Id. at 287 .
In Mary A. B. Du Pont , the issue was the value of Christiana and Delaware Realty common stock for estate tax purposes.
Christiana was found to have a net asset value per share of $1,760.60 and Delaware Realty a net asset value per share of $15,043.66.
But after considering other factors relevant to value, e. g. , the taxes incurred should the companies sell their assets for diversification or some other purpose, the investor's primary reliance on dividend payout, and the lack of market for Christiana stock, the court found the value of the stock to be one thousand dollars ($1,000) per share and eight thousand five hundred dollars ($8,500) per share, respectively.
In the case of Christiana, this represented a forty-three and two-tenths percent (43.2%) discount.
The Delaware law of statutory appraisal further exemplifies the error of the Commission's holding.
In valuing the stock of a closed-end investment company, the Delaware Court of Chancery said: Tri-Continental Corporation v. Battye , 31 Del.Ch. 523 , 74 A.2d 71, 72, 76 (1950).
Du Pont's counsel, commenting on this case, noted that "the decision quite clearly indicates that net asset value is not determinative of value in proceedings under the Delaware appraisal statute, market discount is of great, if not controlling, importance."
We agree with the observation.
The requirement of the Act that merger terms be reasonable and fair is, of course, not determined by the appraisal laws of the states.
But, these laws are relevant in considering the worth of the Christiana shareholders' investment in their company.
To summarize, we hold that the Commission erred in deciding, as a matter of law, that Christiana should be valued on the basis of its net assets (primarily stock in Du Pont).
22 We reach this conclusion from the language of the Act, the legislative history of the Act, a study of the relevant decisions of the Commission, and an examination of related areas of the law. 23 III.
THE RECORD AS A WHOLE DOES NOT SUPPORT THE COMMISSION'S GENERAL FINDING THAT THE TERMS OF THE MERGER ARE REASONABLE AND FAIR.
There remains the question whether the Commission's general finding of reasonableness and fairness can be sustained on the record as a whole.
24 The applicants urge that it can.
They reason: (A) that because the merger proceedings were carefully structured to provide as nearly as possible for arm's-length bargaining, we should give substantial weight to the bargain reached; and (B) that when all factors are considered, the record supports the Commission's general finding that the terms of the merger are reasonable and fair.
25 A. We cannot give substantial weight to the bargain reached.
Du Pont did take some steps to simulate arm's-length bargaining.
It named two directors, C. B. McCoy and Irving Shapiro, who were not shareholders of Christiana or members of the du Pont family to represent it in the negotiations.
McCoy and Shapiro, in turn, retained the First Boston Corporation, an investment banking firm, to advise them on the financial aspects of the merger.
First Boston had no previous significant business relationships and no interlocking directors with either Christiana or Du Pont, and neither First Boston nor its officers or directors had any significant stock interest in either Christiana or Du Pont.
The Du Pont negotiators joined with the Christiana negotiators in retaining Morgan Stanley & Co., an investment banking firm, as financial adviser to both companies.
Morgan Stanley had previously acted as financial adviser to both Christiana and Du Pont.
It had no interlocking directors with either Christiana or Du Pont, and neither the firm nor its partners had any significant stock interest in Christiana or Du Pont.
The Christiana negotiators retained Kidder, Peabody & Co., Incorporated, an investment banking firm, to advise it separately on the financial aspects of the merger.
Kidder, Peabody had no significant business relationship and no interlocking directorships with either Christiana or Du Pont, and neither the firm nor its officers or directors had any significant stock interest with either Christiana or Du Pont.
The steps taken with respect to the composition of the negotiating committee were inadequate.
26 McCoy and Shapiro were full-time employees of the corporation; they were selected for the negotiating committee by a Board of Directors presumptively controlled by Christiana; they had their compensation fixed by a six-man Bonus and Salary Committee, three of whom owned stock in Christiana; 27 and McCoy was a trustee of the Wilmington Trust Company which holds fifty-six percent (56%) of Christiana's stock in trust and votes sixteen percent (16%) of that stock without consultation with beneficiaries.
We do not suggest that it was improper for the Board of Directors of Du Pont to choose McCoy and Shapiro to serve on the negotiating committee.
Their knowledge and expertise were undoubtedly important.
We only suggest that the arm's-length nature of the bargaining would have been strengthened had the Du Pont negotiating committee also included highly competent representatives of the non-employee, non-du Pont family shareholders.
It would have been further strengthened had the Christiana committee included at least one representative of its non-family shareholders.
We recognize that the recommendations of the negotiating committee were approved by unanimous vote of the Board of Directors of Du Pont, with those Du Pont directors holding Christiana stock not voting.
The recusing, while proper, does not change our view with respect to the arm's-length nature of the transaction.
All but two of the thirteen directors who voted on the proposed merger, Caryl P. Haskins and Howard W. Johnson, were employees or retired employees of Du Pont.
Moreover, it is clear from the record that the Board relied on the recommendations of the negotiating committee when it approved the transaction.
The appointment of financial advisers was also significant, but only limited weight can be given to their recommendations.
First, the recommendations were premised in part on the errors of law discussed in Section II of this opinion.
Second, two of the advisers, Morgan Stanley and Kidder Peabody, were, according to the staff of the Division of Investment Management Regulations of the Commission, "influenced by the Applicants to such an extent that the objectivity of their final recommendations was substantially undermined."
28 Moreover, according to the same source, the advisers were influenced by each other.
29 The staff's comments are supported by the record as a whole.
Third, the alternatives to merger suggested by Morgan Stanley and Kidder Peabody, as justification for the terms reached here, were not established to be either feasible or realistic.
The applicants initially informed the advisers that a 333 liquidation of Christiana was a feasible alternative to the proposed merger and that the maximum tax exposure to Christiana shareholders in such a liquidation would be between $40 and $70 million or, at the maximum, a tax liability to Christiana' nontax-exempt shareholders of approximately two and eight-tenths percent (2.8%).
In the light of this information, the applicants' financial adviser, Morgan Stanley, told Du Pont that it would not be well advised to push for a discount greater than two percent (2%).
Thereafter, Morgan Stanley was advised that a 333 liquidation was not a feasible alternative because Christiana's tax liability could not be computed with any degree of certainty.
30 Notwithstanding this change of circumstances, Morgan Stanley made only a minor adjustment downward of five-tenths of a percent (0.5%) in the discount recommended.
An equally minor adjustment was made by Kidder Peabody when it became aware of the same fact.
No adjustment was made by First Boston.
But this fact is unimportant, for there is no showing that First Boston gave weight to the availability of the alternatives in the first instance.
It based its recommendations throughout on the lack of detriment to Du Pont and its shareholders, and its belief that it was not improper for Du Pont to accommodate the Christiana shareholders by an exchange of stock based on the net asset value of Christiana.
Kidder Peabody suggested that Christiana could improve the market price of its stock by increasing the demand therefor.
The suggestion required the initiation of a plan whereby electing Christiana shareholders would direct their dividends be paid to a trustee authorized to use the proceeds to purchase Christiana common stock.
The trustee would buy in the open market or from the company at net asset value, whichever was lower, and remit the stock to the electing shareholders.
Kidder Peabody opined that if shareholders, representing fifty percent (50%) of the stockownership of Christiana, were to accept the plan, the average daily volume of sales of Christiana stock would be doubled and the market discount significantly reduced, if not eliminated, over a period of time.
It stated that the technique had been successfully used by the Madison Fund and the Paul Revere Fund.
The Commission did not receive testimony in support of the statement, nor did it make an independent analysis of the proposition.
Available statistics suggest that the validity of the theory has yet to be demonstrated.
31 Kidder Peabody suggested that another available alternative was for Christiana to solicit a merger partner in the form of an operating company or another investment company.
It conceded that the business, financial and legal difficulties were "admittedly large and the time horizon extended" but stated that the alternative must be given some weight.
Morgan Stanley, on the other hand, stated such a merger was unlikely because of the size of the Christiana block and the effect of the United States antitrust laws.
On the basis of this record, it has not been shown that merger with another operating company or another investment company is in fact a feasible alternative.
The antitrust complications are serious and the size of the block of Christiana severely limits the potential merger partners.
At April 28, 1972, market prices, a minimum investment of $860 million would be required to secure control of Christiana.
The applicants belatedly recognized in their application for approval of the merger that the only feasible method for Christiana to achieve its objectives of eliminating the intercorporate dividend tax and the potential capital gains tax on the unrealized appreciation of its assets was through a tax-free merger.
32 Unfortunately, by then, the financial advisers' recommendations had already been acted upon.
Fourth, First Boston viewed the transaction simply as an accommodation to existing Christiana shareholders without disadvantage to Du Pont or its shareholders.
This view was a candid one and may reflect the most important reason for the Du Pont negotiators agreeing to the terms that they did.
The difficulty is that First Boston fails to explain why Du Pont should accommodate Christiana shareholders by paying $491 million more for their stock than it was worth on the open market.
Fifth, the Du Pont negotiating committee initially told the financial advisers that it was receptive to a merger because such action would tend to simplify corporate operations, particularly with respect to actions necessary to comply with the Act, and would broaden the shareholder base.
The record indicates that neither factor was a significant one in Du Pont's decision.
To the contrary, at hearing, Du Pont's negotiators flatly stated that their objection was to eliminate the Christiana block of stock as a control factor.
We think it demonstrated from the above that the financial advisers acted without a clear understanding of the legal principles involved and that they were neither as independent nor as thorough as they should have been.
It follows that the Du Pont Board's unanimous approval of the merger based in part on the financial advisers' report cannot be given substantial weight.
B. The record does not support the Commission's general finding that the terms of the merger are reasonable and fair.
The economic benefits to Christiana shareholders from the merger are immediate and substantial.
They will receive a premium of twenty-eight and five-tenths percent (28.5%) for their stock ($491,208,370 on the basis of the April 28, 1972, market price for Christiana); they will share in the undistributed earnings of Du Pont; they will, assuming a payout ratio roughly equivalent to the three lowest of the last five years, receive an increase in dividends of forty-two cents ($0.42) per share (from $5.25 to $5.67); and they will receive a more marketable stock.
The economic benefits to present Du Pont shareholders are minimal.
The market value of their shares will be increased by slightly less than four-tenths of one percent (0.4%) ($23 million) as a result of the retirement of approximately 189,000 shares of Du Pont; they will benefit by increased earnings of five cents ($0.05) per share (from $7.31 to $7.36); and they will, assuming a payout ratio as set forth above, receive an increase in dividends of four cents ($0.04) per share ($5.01 to $5.05).
Du Pont negotiators argue that notwithstanding the fact that Christiana shareholders will get the lion's share of the economic benefits, the merger is nevertheless beneficial for Du Pont and its shareholders.
Various reasons, most of which have already been discussed, were advanced for this position at different stages of the proceedings.
At the hearing before the Commission, the important benefit to Du Pont was said to be the dispersal of the block of twenty-eight percent (28%) of Du Pont stock held by Christiana.
Mr. Irving Shapiro was emphatic in making this point.
He stated: The Commission viewed the dispersal of control as being more formal than substantive 33 and gave little weight to this factor.
Its theory was that it could not be concerned with whether Du Pont was controlled by Christiana, the du Pont family, successors to the du Pont family or current management.
We agree with the Commission that the dispersal of control appears to be more formal than substantive.
The Wilmington Trust Company would continue to exercise some degree of control over fifty-six percent (56%) of the newly-issued Du Pont stock.
The du Pont family would continue to hold more than twenty-two percent (22%) of the Du Pont stock.
The Finance Committee 34 and the Bonus and Salary Committee would continue to be controlled by the du Pont family.
And the family would retain substantial membership on the Board of Directors.
We do not agree with the Commission that dispersal of control is irrelevant in a determination of reasonableness and fairness.
Important advantages to Du Pont and the public would flow from an effective dispersion of control.
The problem is that the degree of dispersion attained here does not justify the substantial premium paid for the Christiana stock.
Christiana argues that the merger should nonetheless be approved because the economic benefits which its shareholders would receive are largely the result of the operation of the tax laws of the United States, and that they alone are entitled to receive these benefits.
35 We take a different view of the matter.
As we see it, Christiana would have us ignore the market value of its stock in determining reasonableness and fairness.
We cannot do so. Market value, like net asset value, is a factor which must be considered in determining the worth of an investment.
The fact that the market value of Christiana stock is affected by the intercorporate dividend tax and unrealized capital gains liabilities is no reason to ignore that value in determining its worth.
36 We might have a different case if Christiana stock had not consistently sold at a substantial discount from net asset value.
The fact is, however, that the discount has not been less than nine and seven-tenths percent (9.7%) and has been as high as thirty and three-tenths percent (30.3%) since April, 1967.
The discount has not fallen below seventeen and seven-tenths percent (17.7%) since January 1, 1969.
There perhaps were times in the history of Christiana, particularly before World War II, when the du Pont family could have realized the net asset value of their shares by alternatives other than merger, but they chose to retain the economic, political and social advantages that accompanies control of one of America's largest industrial concerns.
Having chosen to do so, they cannot now be heard to complain that the tax laws of the United States have affected the market value of their stock.
The protesters contend that the consummation of the merger will have a significant adverse market impact on the price of Du Pont stock.
The applicants retort that any adverse impact will be minimal and of short duration.
They reason that potential capital gains tax liabilities will discourage Christiana shareholders from selling their Du Pont stock, and that the Du Pont market is strong enough to absorb any sales that will be made.
37 The Commission takes still another view: Christiana Securities Company , supra at 19-20 .
The record supports the view that the merger will engender some selling that would not otherwise take place.
The Wilmington Trust Company indicated that it would make sales from time to time, increased marketability generally will result in some additional shares of Du Pont finding their way into the market, and some block selling must be anticipated.
It is the latter sales that may adversely affect the price of Du Pont stock for short periods of time.
38 The Commission would entirely ignore these short-term effects on the grounds that it is not interested in protecting "tape watchers."
But persons other than "tape watchers" will be required to sell stock from time to time, and some of them may have to sell their Du Pont stock during a period in which the price of that stock is depressed.
Moreover, "tape watchers" deserve the same protection as other investors.
It follows that the Commission erred in failing to give any weight to the factor of occasional detriment to Du Pont shareholders.
39 To summarize: substantial weight cannot be given to the recommendations of the negotiating committee or the financial advisers; the economic benefits of the merger flow almost entirely to the Christiana shareholders and there are no significant compensating benefits that flow to Du Pont and its shareholders; and the potential detriment to Du Pont shareholders which would result from the merger is minimal but of sufficient import that the Commission should have accorded it some weight in determining reasonableness and fairness.
CONCLUSION We hold that there is not substantial evidence on the basis of this record to support the Commission's finding that the terms of the merger are reasonable and fair and free from overreaching on the part of anyone concerned.
The order of the Commission granting the application to merge is accordingly set aside.
Costs will be taxed equally to Du Pont and Christiana.
40
