 JOHN R. BROWN , Chief Judge: This case is before the Court upon the petition of Eastex, Incorporated for review and modification of the Board's determination that Eastex violated 8(a)(1) of the Act, 29 U.S.C.A. 158(a)(1) 1 by prohibiting distribution by employees on company premises a union sponsored circular on non-working time in non-working areas.
The Board has filed a cross-application for enforcement of the order.
We enforce the order.
It is startling, and at the same time a tribute to our adversary system which takes cases as they come with no arrogant assumption that decision-makers--legislative or judicial--can anticipate all that will follow, that in the hundreds of Labor Board cases in this Court, we have never been faced with quite this problem before.
Avoiding the time worn, battle weary cliche of the clean slate, we are, in the Astronautical Age, exploring new space, with only limited or hierarchical limitations imposed.
I .
In March 1974, the President and Executive Board of the Union (United Paper Workers International Union, Local 801) decided to distribute the following news bulletin to employees of Eastex.
WE NEED YOU 2 the active membership A PHONY LABEL--"right to work" POLITICS and INFLATION FOOD FOR THOUGHT On March 26, 1974, Hugh Terry, an Eastex employee and Union vice-president sought permission from George, the assistant personnel director, to hand out the bulletin in non-working areas during non-working time.
George's response was that he doubted Eastex would allow the distribution but he would check with higher management.
Later, Boyd Young, Union President, and other employees of Eastex raised the matter with George.
He again denied permission to distribute the bulletin.
Upon consultation with Leonard Menius, Eastex's Personnel Director, George confirmed that Eastex's final position would be to deny permission for distribution of the bulletin.
The Administrative Law Judge found that Eastex maintained no-solicitation and no-posting rules 3 in violation of 8(a)(1) .
But it is clear that Rule 14, no-solicitation, played no part in its decision to prohibit distribution of the bulletin.
This conclusion is corroborated by Young's testimony that the request was made not because of a contract or rule but to continue good relationship with Eastex.
Eastex took the position that the second and third sections of the bulletin, 4 " A Phony Label--'Right To Work'" and " Politics and Inflation," were purely political and did not pertain to anything over which it had authority or power to change or control.
Eastex thus asserts that these sections were not matters related to the exercise of 7 rights, 29 U.S.C.A. 157 .
The Board found that parts and of the bulletin were protected by 7 and that Eastex had violated 8(a)(1) of the Act.
We agree that the bulletin was protected by 7 and inescapably it follows that Eastex violated 8(a)(1) in prohibiting its distribution.
II .
Section 7 , 29 U.S.C.A. 157 , guarantees to employees the "right to self-organization, to form, join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively and to engage in other concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection.
*" Section 8 , 29 U.S.C.A. 158 , condemns as an unfair labor practice interference by an employer in the exercise of those rights.
The pivotal point of this decision rests upon the classification of the activity--was the admittedly concerted activity for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection, or was it completely outside of the protection of 7 .
In essence, we must determine if this bulletin concerned matters relating to the exercise of 7 rights.
If the activity was under the protective umbrella of 7 , the employer committed an unfair labor practice by interfering in the exercise of the right.
If it was not, the employer's prohibition on distribution would furnish no basis for a finding of unfair labor practice.
Eastex prohibited distribution of the bulletin because parts and were purely political and did not pertain to anything over which "Eastex had the authority or power to change or control."
We do not accept Eastex's position.
Both parts are sufficiently related to employment situations to merit 7 protection.
Although a number of Circuits in a variety of circumstances unlike those here have nominally declared that the test of whether the activity is protected is whether it pertains to something over which the employer has it within his power or authority to change or control, 5 we think that is too narrow.
The fact is that Courts have not been this stringent in the day to day application to the infinite complexities of industrial-collective bargaining life.
The horizon of 7 rights is not confined to the factory wall or the perimeters of the battlefield vis -a vis employer-employees.
6 Since authorities among (and within) the circuits are not consistent on the point, and the Supreme Court has not yet spoken definitively, we are compelled to offer another view to march in company along the way toward a synthesis.
The synthesis involves, of course, arriving at an accommodation between two sets of rights broadly hostile to each other.
One set comprises the rights of the proprietor-employer arising from his ownership and control of the plant premises.
Among these is the right to prescribe what those whom he invites on his property shall and shall not do while there.
The other set of rights are those granted employees by 7 , rights "to self-organization .
.
.
to bargain collectively .
.
.
and to engage in other concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection .
.
.
."
29 U.S.C.A. 157 (emphasis added).
Whatever the scope of 7 rights may be when exercised off the employer's property, 7 at the plant gate they enter as a wedge driven in the employer's mass of proprietary ones, and as such, on this terrain they come under especial pressure.
Yet it seems clear that they should not be unduly compressed there, since it is only there that the employees assemble in their full capacity as such, with attendant ease of communication with each other and with management, and with confrontation of daily problems, subjection to working conditions and discipline, etc. Again and again, accommodation is called for.
What is to be the informing principle upon which reaching it proceeds?
The key to determining what 7 permits employees to say inside the gates of the plant does not lie in restricting the scope of Congress' language employed in 7 8 or in requiring a tone more deferential and a subject matter more restricted than the First Amendment permits.
Instead it lies in consulting the purpose for which the employees are invited inside these gates at all.
9 That purpose is to do just one thing: to work at their jobs in that plant.
We hold that whatever is reasonably related to the employees' jobs or to their status or condition as employees in the plant may be the subject of such handouts as we treat of here, distributed on the plant premises in such a manner as not to interfere with the work, to the full range permitted by 7 's language, valid local laws and the First Amendment.
Instead of the rigid employer control formulation, we think the policies of the Act and a synthesis of what courts have done--not always said--require that we adopt this reasonably job related test.
Showing that determination ought not to be compelled by some rigid formulation of the past, 10 the Ninth Circuit's recent decision in Kaiser Engineers v. NLRB , 9 Cir., 1976, 538 F.2d 1379 , points the way.
In Kaiser Engineers v. NLRB , supra , in enforcing the Board's order that Kaiser Engineers had engaged in unfair labor practices, the Ninth Circuit reasoned that direct control by the company over the matter was not the decisive factor.
The finding of unfair labor practice was based on Kaiser Engineers' discharge of a civil engineer for having signed and joined with other employees in a joint letter written to United States legislators stating their opposition to a competitor's application to Immigration Authorities for authorization to import foreign engineers.
Kaiser contended that the activity was not "for mutual aid or protection within the meaning of 7 " and that "protected activity under 7 [was] limited to [an] activity taking place within the employer-employee relationship and relating to the terms and conditions of employment".
Supra 538 at 1384 .
The Court, in rejecting this contention, reasoned: Id. at 1385 The Court held that: 7 Id. III .
Before analyzing the challenged parts and some observations are in order.
At the outset--although this rubs both ways--the publication was so neutral as to Eastex that it does not even remotely come close to that category 11 of non-protected distributions which attacking the very enterprise to which workers owe their jobs malign, ridicule or attack the management's conduct of the employer's business.
Next, and very important, the distribution of the pamphlet was not some guided or unguided hope of finding a captive audience for propaganda on contemporary political issues unrelated to the interests of the workers or the union as their statutory bargaining agent.
On the contrary, the evidence is uncontradicted and presumably credited by the ALJ that it was done out of direct, tangible employee-union self interest.
Negotiations for renewal of the collective bargaining contract were just a few months away.
This prospect called for increased support and solidarity on the part of the workers, and to that end recruitment of more members from those who, under Texas right to work laws, did not have to belong to the union.
12 In this effort which neither employer nor Court can censor, it is at least reasonable for the union to think that accomplishing these goals would be enhanced by showing first a sensitive concern for workers' interests in contemporary social-economic-political problems and, second, a strong stand on such issues.
IV .
One can hardly imagine a matter on which organized labor--for its members as well as for non-members for whom the union owes the obligation of good faith bargaining--has a more direct interest than right-to-work laws.
If, for example, as frequently recurs, a movement was then under weigh to repeal existing right-to-work laws no one under any 7 standard could question the right of the workers to inform their fellows as to the necessity for concern and action.
To this Eastex counters that with the law already on the books 13 the appeal to use pressure against a prospective constitutional mandate 14 was too remote.
But this again ignores the immediate self interest of workers in Texas--including those in the Texas "open shop" of Eastex.
It is one thing to face a statutory scheme which is open to legislative modification or repeal.
It is quite another thing to face the prospect that such a scheme will be frozen in a concrete constitutional mandate.
That the suggestion was to appeal to congressmen and senators rather than to members of the constitutional revision convention goes only to the method of exercising the cherished right of petition.
Part appeals to the workers with respect to circumstances that involve the effectiveness of the union as an institution.
The workers have a real interest in bringing to bear whatever political pressure they might have in order to affect conditions they perceive to be a threat or, vice versa, in their favor.
It was within 7 protection.
V .
Although a bit more tenuous, we think part "Politics and Inflation", is, likewise, protected.
Clearly, a minimum wage law even in a company that has a minimum wage of $3.86 15 has a great deal of bearing, from an economic standpoint, on employment and wage levels.
Minimum wage is a recurring item in annual negotiations between unions and employers.
The national minimum wage may very well have a direct bearing on skilled labor beyond those covered under the minimum wage act.
We need not rely on what we in our non-judicial lives observe in the continuous escalation of wage rates with successful arguments that for each level of employment the minimum has to exceed the federal statutory minimum.
For here the Board, adopting ALJ has, in its expertise declared that the "minimum wage inevitably influences wage levels derived from collective bargaining, even those far above the minimum".
R. 115.
VI .
Although holding that this literature was protected, we feel compelled to reject outright the Board's second argument.
The Board would have us hold that once a protected activity is found then any material that is neutral would be permissible.
The material must be reasonably related to employment activities, and the presence of some 7 protected material will not rescue that which is significantly not protected.
We must also reject the Board's argument that the least Eastex could have done was to excise the objectionable portions of the bulletin and permit the distribution of the unobjectionable portion.
Requiring this of the employer would inevitably place it in the position of editing the proposals of the union and employees.
To allow this would give rise to some very dangerous things.
The union could not fully express its views in its own way.
The strength of the bargaining process would be seriously diluted.
We not only think the employer does not have the duty to edit union material, we also would regard it as an impermissible activity on the part of the employer to undertake such efforts, fraught as they would be with a new charge of 7, 8 violations and a court sanctioned interference with First Amendment rights.
See NLRB v. Magnavox Co. , Tenn., 1974, 415 U.S. 322 , 94 S.Ct. 1099 , 39 L.Ed.2d 358 .
As Eastex does not here question the Board's order on the distribution-solicitation rules (see note 3, supra ) we make no comment thereon.
ENFORCEMENT GRANTED.
