 TALBOT SMITH , Senior District Judge.
This case involves the death of a workman assisting in moving a large steel tank.
The tank was being moved by a large crane, the boom of which came into contact with high tension electric power lines, resulting in the workman's electrocution.
At the time the deceased was 28 years of age with a wife and four children.
The plaintiff, his widow, as administratrix of his estate was awarded a jury verdict of $234,756.
We affirm.
The crane involved was owned by the Owen Equipment and Erection Company (hereafter "Owen"), and leased by Paxton & Vierling Steel Company (hereafter "Paxton") for heavy lifting.
The case was initiated by a bill of complaint filed by plaintiff, an Iowa citizen, against Omaha Public Power District (hereafter "OPPD"), a Nebraska corporation, and Paxton, also a Nebraska corporation.
The course of the pleadings thereafter was long and involved and will be found in the Appendix hereto.
We note here only that Owen was impleaded as a third-party defendant by OPPD.
The relationship between defendant Owen and Paxton was somewhat involved.
Paxton was engaged in the fabrication of structural steel and the manufacture of farm and similar products.
It is a non-union plant.
To avoid possible labor trouble in "erecting steel on the outside, which is strictly a union proposition," it formed Owen, both corporations having the same headquarters and the same officers, Owen being 100% owned by Paxton.
Owen owned two cranes, operated by Fred (father) and David (son) Morrow, both of whom were on Paxton's payroll.
Both of them held union cards.
It was David who was operating the crime at the time of decedent's death.
After Owen was organized it hired one Harry Flynn, a qualified crane operator and member of the crane operator's union, to be its erection superintendent.
It was he who trained Fred Morrow in the use and upkeep of the cranes and it was Fred himself who trained his son on the job.
Fred Morrow retired in 1969.
Mr. Flynn retired shortly before the accident and was not replaced by a successor.
David Morrow then remained the sole operator qualified to operate Owen's big outside cranes.
When Paxton required the big cranes, the operators went with the crane and "they ran that crane."
Mr. Owen, President of Owen, agreed in his deposition that it "wouldn't do [Owen] a bit of good to own those cranes unless [Owen] had operators for them *."
After long and involved pleadings, a summary of which, as we have noted, will be found in the Appendix, the parties had, by trial date, January 12, 1976, been reduced to two: plaintiff Kroger, an Iowa citizen, and defendant Owen, charged to be "a Nebraska corporation," and consistently self-admitted in the pleadings to be such.
So stood the description of the parties until noon on the third day of the trial.
At this juncture, defendant Owen elicited from witness Petersen, Secretary of Owen, that Owen's principal place of business was in Carter Lake, Iowa. Having done so, defendant, the same afternoon challenged the jurisdiction of the court on the ground of lack of diversity.
The court and the plaintiff were taken by surprise because of defendant's pleadings.
Plaintiff's amended complaint, filed on November 9, 1973, some two years prior to trial, had unequivocally charged that "Owen Equipment and Erection Co. is a Nebraska corporation with its principal place of business in Nebraska."
Defendant had not denied this outright.
It had utilized a qualified general denial.
It "[a]dmit[ted] that Owen Equipment and Erection Company is a corporation organized and existing under the Laws of the State of Nebraska," and "[d]enie[d] each and every other allegation contained in said Amended Complaint *."
This form of answer was in violation of Fed.R.Civ.P. 8(b) which provides that "[w]hen a pleader intends in good faith to deny only a part or a qualification of an averment, he shall specify so much of it as is true and material and deny only the remainder."
1 Thus, defendant's admission of part of an averment and denial of the balance in a qualified general denial clearly does not meet the requirements of the Rule quoted.
Nor, as also required by Rule 8(b), does it fairly meet the substance of the averment denied.
Appellant finally admitted on oral argument to us, after close questioning, a point clear from the pleadings, namely, that it had not specifically challenged the diversity jurisdiction of the court at any time during the long course of the pleadings, and particularly had not done so in response to the plaintiff's amended bill of complaint, filed on November 9, 1973, charging Owen to be "a Nebraska corporation with its principal place of business in Nebraska."
Owen waited until near the close of the trial to make its challenge.
The point had been concealed during the entire period of time since the filing of the amended complaint some two years theretofore.
Under similar circumstances, the Third Circuit has held the allegation as to defendant's citizenship to be admitted.
2 The District Court rejected the challenge to its jurisdiction, holding, in its Memorandum Opinion, that although no independent basis of jurisdiction existed as to Owen, nevertheless it had discretion under the Gibbs case, 3 to exercise its judicial power over the case.
It held, in part, that: See Union Bank & Trust Co. v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. 38 F.R.D. 486 Olson v. United States 38 F.R.D. 489 United Mine Workers [v. Gibbs 383 U.S. 715 86 S.Ct. 1130 16 L.Ed.2d 218 jurisdictional power whole case Moore's Federal Practice 14.27 4 5 The problem presented arises in the area of ancillary and pendent jurisdiction.
We start, of course, with the proposition that federal courts are courts of limited jurisdiction.
6 However, under the developing doctrines of pendent and ancillary jurisdiction, 7 there has been expansion of federal jurisdiction into areas which ordinarily do not come under the jurisdiction of the federal courts.
The limits of this expansion are our immediate concern.
Modern analysis starts with the landmark decision in United Mine Workers v. Gibbs , 383 U.S. 715 , 86 S.Ct. 1130 , 16 L.Ed.2d 218 (1966).
8 In this case, the plaintiff, a mining superintendent and hauling contractor, was prevented from the performance of his contract by a local union which had forcibly prevented the opening of the mine.
Suit was brought in the federal court alleging violation of section 303 of the Labor Management Relations Act, 9 to which was joined a state claim for malicious interference with contract rights.
Plaintiff prevailed on both claims, but upon motion for judgment n. o. v. the federal claim was held non-actionable and judgment entered on the state claim, with affirmation by the Court of Appeals following.
10 The Supreme Court affirmed the assumption of jurisdiction over the pendent state claim.
11 The significance of the Gibbs case for our purposes lies in its discarding of the test established in Hurn v. Oursler , 289 U.S. 238, 246 , 53 S.Ct. 586, 589 , 77 L.Ed. 1148 (1933), for pendent jurisdiction, under which pendent jurisdiction was present when "two distinct grounds in support of a single cause of action 12 [were] alleged, one only of which present[ed] a federal question," but not "where two separate and distinct causes of action [were] alleged, one only of which [was] federal in character."
In place of the Hurn test, the Court held that pendent jurisdiction is present whenever the state and federal claims "derive from a common nucleus of operative fact" to the degree that a plaintiff would "ordinarily be expected to try them all in one judicial proceeding."
13 If, the Court continued, the state claim is so related to the federal claim that there is "but one constitutional 'case'," there is power to exercise pendent jurisdiction and it is "unnecessarily grudging" to limit the availability of pendent jurisdiction more narrowly than is constitutionally required.
14 Owen, as noted supra , was impleaded by OPPD as a third-party defendant pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 14(a) .
15 The provisions of Rule 14(a) governing third-party practice are extremely broad, permitting the third-party defendant to assert against the plaintiff "any claim arising out of the transaction or occurrence that is the subject matter of the plaintiff's claim against the third-party plaintiff," and the plaintiff to assert against the third-party defendant "any claim arising out of the transaction or occurrence that is the subject matter of the plaintiff's claim against the third-party plaintiff."
Rule 14, however, is silent as to whether independent jurisdictional grounds are required for such claims and thus arises our question.
It is to be noted, however, that Rule 14(a) does not by itself extend the jurisdiction of the federal courts.
16 It is clear that many of the claims which Rule 14(a) permits to be joined with the main claim asserted by the plaintiff have been allowed without an independent basis of jurisdiction under the doctrine of ancillary jurisdiction.
Professors Wright and Miller state that "[t]he cases on point almost all hold that defendant's claim against a third-party defendant is within the ancillary jurisdiction of the federal courts," 17 even though there may be no diversity between these parties.
See, e. g. , Waylander-Peterson Co. v. Great Northern Ry. Co. , 201 F.2d 408, 415 (8th Cir. 1953).
The courts have also allowed, without an independent basis of jurisdiction, the third-party defendant's claim against the plaintiff, arising out of the same transaction as the plaintiff's main claim.
18 Since much of what we are about to write concerns diversity, we think it not inappropriate to point out that such action against the plaintiff has been held to be within the court's ancillary jurisdiction, even when the main claim is based upon diversity jurisdiction and both the third-party defendant and plaintiff are citizens of the same state.
19 Thus, in view of the breadth of Rule 14(a), combined with current ancillary and pendent jurisdiction doctrine it is not unusual for courts to adjudicate ancillary claims having no independent jurisdictional basis.
20 On the other hand, the great numerical majority of cases have held that if the plaintiff asserts a claim against the third-party defendant, as permitted by Rule 14(a), there must be independent grounds for jurisdiction.
21 The older, pre Gibbs , cases, including one from our court, 22 support the proposition with almost complete unanimity, 23 as did the first edition of Prof.
Moore's treatise.
24 After the landmark decision in Gibbs , however, the underpinnings of the restrictive rule were swept away.
Prof.
Moore's later edition, following the holding in Gibbs , submitted that the matter of accepting jurisdiction should be within the trial court's discretion, arguing trenchantly that: United Mine Workers jurisdictional power whole case, i. e. United Mine Workers United Mine Workers 25 The solution to the problem presented as to the District Court's retention of jurisdiction in the case at bar is clearly outlined in Gibbs .
That decision enunciated a two step process for the resolution of the ancillary-pendent jurisdiction problem: First, the determination of whether or not there is power in the federal courts to hear the whole matter.
If there is, the Court continues, "That power need not be exercised in every case in which it is found to exist.
It has consistently been recognized that pendent jurisdiction is a doctrine of discretion, not of plaintiff's right.
Its justification lies in considerations of judicial economy, convenience and fairness to litigants *."
26 At the time the plaintiff amended her complaint to assert a claim against Owen there is no question but that the court had jurisdiction over plaintiff's claim against OPPD and OPPD's third-party claim against Owen.
27 But the question presented is whether the court also had power over the plaintiff-Owen claim.
Within the framework of the Gibbs decision, Kroger's claim against Owen arises out of the core of "operative facts" giving rise to both Kroger's claim against OPPD and OPPD's claim against Owen.
All parties were before the court and it is both paradoxical and anomalous to hold in this situation that, although Kroger can go against OPPD which can go against Owen, and Owen may proceed against Kroger, Kroger cannot proceed against Owen.
This result is not demanded by Rule 14 and has its origins in the midst of the precedents of earlier days and crystallized concepts that cannot stand the light of searching modern examination.
It is an over-simplification of the result we seek to cast the problem in terms of black and white, that is, jurisdiction or no jurisdiction.
The matter is broader than that.
Once the court has before it all of the parties to the controversy, sharing common and interrelated facts, it has power in the jurisdictional sense to dispose of the case. To say, in a modern court, under modern rules, 28 that a third-party defendant may sue a plaintiff of the same state, but not the converse, is a monument to the triumph of rule over reason, "a step backward to the time when piecemeal litigation, tactical maneuvering by procedural devices, inconvenience to litigants, duplication of litigation in different courts, and a resulting waste of judicial and litigant time and resources were the hallmarks of formalistic rules of civil procedure."
29 The judicial power is there.
Whether or not to use it answers to no ipse dixit .
The question is whether to exercise that power, "considering all the factors of economy and convenience in the context of federalism."
30 Thus remains the exercise of discretion.
And it is for this reason, we are convinced, that we are warned, from the earliest cases to the latest, that there can be no blanket rule governing all cases, no per se dogma to serve as an easy substitute for thought.
31 The factors governing the exercise of discretion were expressed in Gibbs to be "judicial economy, convenience, and fairness to litigants."
32 The satisfaction here of the first two requirements requires no exegesis.
It is upon the element of fairness that we shall speak.
The defendant before us has connived for himself an unfair advantage.
But what he has overlooked in all of this is the court's exercise of discretion in terms of fairness.
It is not without significance that well prior to Gibbs the discretion of the trial court was relied upon in denying belated challenges to jurisdiction in situations of oppression.
33 In the Di Frischia case, after a series of pleadings, preparations for trial, and a stipulation of diversity, a defendant sought to amend its answer on the eve of trial, once again bringing up the matter of jurisdiction.
The District Court dismissed the action, but the Court of Appeals reversed, resting decision on the discretion vested in the trial court and stating that "[a] defendant may not play fast and loose with the judicial machinery and deceive the courts."
34 A situation similar in principle and with similar results in the retention of jurisdiction is found in Murphy v. Kodz , 351 F.2d 163 (9th Cir. 1965).
There the plaintiff's decedent was killed in a mid-air collision, plaintiff bringing action in state court against one Shupe and other parties.
Mr. Shupe, alleging that he was an officer of the Forest Service acting in his official capacity at the time of the accident, had the case removed to the District Court, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1442(a)(1) .
No head of federal jurisdiction was alleged as to the remaining defendants.
The trial resulted in a judgment in favor of Shupe, but the jury was unable to agree on the liability of the other defendants.
As to them, a new trial resulted in plaintiff's favor, whereupon defendants moved to remand the case to the state court, arguing that the federal court had lost further jurisdiction of the case upon entry of the judgment for Shupe, who was the sole party entitled to invoke that court's jurisdiction.
The motions were denied by the District Court.
The Ninth Circuit affirmed, finding an analogy "in the penumbral area of federal jurisdiction, so-called ancillary or pendent jurisdiction," citing, among other cases, Hurn v. Oursler , supra .
After a review of the authorities applicable to the particular area of jurisdiction at bar, which, as the court noted, has analogies to pendent and ancillary jurisdiction, the court stated that the District Court had discretion in the premises and concluded in language equally applicable to the case before us: 35 In the case before us, the District Court stood squarely upon its discretionary powers in the premises, relying on Gibbs .
Defendant Owen attacks the applicability of this doctrine to the case at bar, asserting that the dismissal of the plaintiff's claim against OPPD before trial limits the discretion of the District Court.
We do not so conclude.
It is but one factor, among many others, to be considered.
36 But beyond that, however, there are other considerations.
By subtle and adroit pleading the defendant has gained a substantial advantage.
If the trial goes well, it can keep the jurisdictional point hidden.
If the trial seems to be going badly or, indeed, if it loses on the merits, it asserts that it can even then challenge jurisdiction and successfully, so it argues, since it insists that it is clear to all that jurisdiction may be challenged by anyone at any time.
37 But plaintiff overlooks the application of the Gibbs doctrine to ancillary litigation.
The District Court had judicial power over the case initially and we find no abuse of its discretion in the continued exercise of that power.
But beyond that, whether the court's discretion was abused or not in its retention of the cause, defendant's conduct estops it from asserting abuse of discretion, not only under the teachings of Murphy v. Kodz , supra , but also under the most elementary considerations of judicial fairness.
"Despite the fact that defendant has exclusive possession of the knowledge of the extent of its own business in Iowa, it remained silent on this issue until more than two years subsequent to the filing of the amended complaint.
No reason for the delay has been offered *."
38 The doctrine of the perpetual availability of jurisdictional challenge furnishes no sanctuary to appellant in the light of such conduct.
Proceeding to the merits, the case was submitted to the jury under, among others, the following instruction: There was no error in this instruction.
It is well established that the trial court has the duty to submit to the jury all issues raised by the pleadings which have evidentiary support.
Flentie v. American Community Stores Corp. , 389 F.2d 80, 82 (8th Cir. 1968) (applying Iowa law); Campbell v. Martin , 257 Iowa 1247 , 136 N.W.2d 508, 511 (1965).
In addition the court properly instructed the jury on the establishment of negligence, causation, and damage.
Here there was ample and controverted evidence submitted on each of the theories of the plaintiff.
The first issue presented by the court in its instructions related to the safe or unsafe condition of the crane concededly owned by defendant Owen.
On this issue plaintiff's expert testified, as to described safety devices, that One of the issues most vigorously argued at trial was whether the crane operator, David Morrow, was a servant of Paxton or of defendant Owen, loaned by Paxton to Owen for this particular job.
What the court was faced with was thus the notoriously complex "borrowed servant" problem, 39 that is, the problem of vicarious liability between the general employer, from whose employ the servant came, or the special employer, who was utilizing at the time the servant so obtained.
On this issue, the trial court instructed the jury, essentially, that it must decide whether David Morrow was, at the time of the accident, acting as Owen's servant, and that the test of agency as between the general and the special employer was which had the right to control the manner of performance of the work being done.
The evidence as to control, as well as other facets of the employment relation, was conflicting and presented a jury question.
The instructions, read in their entirety in the light of the unique facts adduced as to Morrow's employment and duties, summarized supra , fairly presented the controlling issue to the jury and we find no error therein.
Bengford v. Carlem Corp. , 156 N.W.2d 855, 863 (Iowa 1968); Houlahan v. Brockmeier , 258 Iowa 1197 , 141 N.W.2d 545, 548 (1966); Anderson v. Abramson , 234 Iowa 792 , 13 N.W.2d 315 (1944); Kanipe v. Grundy County Rural Electric Co-op , 231 Iowa 187 , 300 N.W. 662, 665 (1941).
40 We find no merit in the Workmen's Compensation issue as to Kroger.
He was in no sense an employee of Owen, borrowed or direct.
Affirmed.
