 PER CURIAM: Four petitions seeking injunctive relief and review of a June 28, 1977 Order of the Interstate Commerce Commission are before us, together with the United States' motion to dismiss.
1 For reasons discussed below, we grant the government's motion.
Background Of The Case This controversy arose on the eve of the flow of crude oil through the Trans Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS) 2 which stretches from oil fields in Alaska's North Slope at Prudhoe Bay to Valdez, Alaska, some 800 miles distant.
The pipeline was constructed by the Alyeska Pipeline Service Corporation, an agent for its eight owners.
3 Between May 27, 1977 and June 15, 1977, seven TAPS owners filed the tariffs 4 which are at issue here, 5 having effective dates ranging from June 20 to July 1, 1977.
Protests were filed by the Department of Justice, the State of Alaska, 6 the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation, 7 and the ICC's Bureau of Investigations and Enforcement.
The Commission heard oral argument on June 27, 1977 8 without making any formal evidentiary record.
8a The ICC's June 28 Order 9 instituted an investigation into the lawfulness of the tariffs pursuant to 49 U.S.C.A. 15(1) 10 and 15(7).
11 The rates filed were suspended for seven months without prejudice to the filing of interim rates during the suspension period.
The Commission additionally authorized the filing, upon not less than one day's notice, of interim rates which were not to exceed certain levels, subject, however, to the condition that the carriers keep account and that (i) the interim tariffs contain a refund provision to the effect that if the new rates exceed those subsequently authorized or prescribed by the ICC, the carriers will refund the excess with interest; and (ii) the carriers file a similar refund provision applicable to the original proposed rates.
The Order thus had the following effect on the carriers' proposed rates per barrel: As Filed by Authorized TAPS Owners By Order 12 Reduction Amerada Hess Pipeline Corp. $6.44 $4.85 $1.59 Arco Pipe line Company 6.04 4.91 1.13 BP Pipelines Inc. 6.35 4.68 1.67 Exxon Pipeline Company 6.27 5.10 1.17 Mobil Alaska Pipeline Company 6.31 4.84 1.47 Phillips Alaska Pipeline Corp. 6.22 Not Yet Acted Upon Sohio Pipe Line Company 6.16 4.70 1.46 Union Alaska Pipeline Company 6.09 4.89 1.20 The carriers estimate that the Order will result in an irretrievable $340 million loss over the seven-month suspension period.
The suspension left the pipeline companies without tariffs on file, and they are forbidden by 6(7) of the Act to engage or participate in the transportation of oil unless they file new tariffs.
The carriers thus had two alternatives open to them.
They could file new tariffs within the ICC guidelines or they could shut down the TAPS system for the seven-month suspension period.
Unhappy with either choice, the pipeline companies filed their petitions and motions and the United States moved to dismiss.
13 This Court heard oral argument on July 19, 1977.
The major issues raised by the parties are (i) whether we have jurisdiction to review the ICC order; (ii) whether the Commission has the authority under 49 U.S.C.A. 15(7) to suspend the first and only ("initial") rate of a carrier; (iii) whether as part of a purported suspension order the ICC may prescribe or suggest optional maximum interim rates; (iv) whether the ICC's order authorizing the filing of maximum interim rates without a full hearing amounted to a prescription of rates within the meaning of 49 U.S.C.A. 15(1) ; (v) whether the Commission acted outside its statutory authority in ordering the refund provisions in the tariffs; (vi) whether the Commission's action was arbitrary, capricious or constituted an abuse of discretion; (vii) whether the maximum interim rates authorized were confiscatory in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
1.
Reviewability and the authority of the Commission The government has moved to dismiss the petitions for review on the ground that this court has no jurisdiction to review suspension orders of the ICC issued pursuant to 49 U.S.C.A. 15(7) .
True, courts do not have jurisdiction to review ICC suspension orders.
Congress has committed the decision to suspend or not to suspend proposed rates exclusively to the discretion of the Commission.
U. S. v. Students Challenging Regulatory Agency Procedures (SCRAP) , 412, U.S. 669 , 93 S.Ct. 2405 , 37 L.Ed.2d 254 (1973); Arrow Transportation Co. v. Southern Railway Co. , 372 U.S. 658 , 83 S.Ct. 984 , 10 L.Ed.2d 52 (1963); K. Davis, ADMINISTRATIVE LAW TREATISE 966 (1970 Supp.).
As a panel of this circuit noted: 49 U.S.C. 15(7) Texas v. Seatrain International , 518 F.2d 175 at 178 (CA5, 1975).
But the rule of unreviewability presupposes an affirmative answer to a preliminary inquiry into whether the Commission has acted within the authority granted to it by 15(7) .
A suit to enjoin a suspension order may be entertained if the complaint shows that the agency lacked the basic statutory authority to issue such an order.
Great Western Packers Express, Inc. v. U. S. , 246 F.Supp.
151, 154 (D.Colo., 1965) (three-judge court); Long Island Railroad Co. v. U. S. , 193 F.Supp.
795, 800 (E.D.N.Y., 1961)(three-judge court).
Section 15(7) gives the ICC the power to suspend "any schedule stating a new individual or joint rate, fare, or charge, or any new individual or joint classification, or any new individual or joint regulation or practice affecting any rate, fare, or charge" for a period not to exceed seven months, and to order an investigation and full hearings on those new charges.
The above language has no plain meaning.
The term "new" can refer to both changed and initial rates or only to changed rates.
The statutory history of the Mann-Elkins Act (1910), which added 15(7) to the Interstate Commerce Act, yields little insight on whether the ICC is empowered to suspend initial rates since no one seems to have debated or even discussed this specific question.
However, our examination of statutes modeled on 15(7) and of the legislative policy underlying that section convinces us that it was Congress' intention that the Commission have the power to suspend initial as well as changed rates.
Section 15(7) has served as the prototype of other agency rate suspension provisions in the Interstate Commerce Act and in other regulatory acts as well.
In many of these acts, when Congress has wished to exclude initial rates, either in part or across the board, it has done so in specific language.
In the Interstate Commerce Act itself, there are provisions modeled on 49 U.S.C.A. 15(7) giving the ICC authority to suspend new rates, proposed by motor carriers, 49 U.S.C.A. 316(g) , by water carriers, 49 U.S.C.A. 907(g)(i) , and by freight forwarders, 49 U.S.C.A. 1006(e) .
Each of these provisions contains a grandfather clause exempting certain initial rates from suspension.
If initial rates were not covered there would have been no need for the grandfather clauses.
Another example is 49 U.S.C.A. 1482(g) , which gives the Civil Aeronautics Board suspension powers similar to those granted to the ICC with one significant difference: it specifically provides that "[t]his subsection shall not apply to any initial tariff filed by any air carrier."
Thus, we conclude that if Congress had wished to exempt initial tariffs from the purview of 15(7) it would have done so specifically, and that Congress' omission to specially exempt initial rates in this section indicates its intent that initial rates be subject to the ICC's 15(7) suspension powers.
The conclusion that initial rates are covered by 15(7) is consistent with the legislative policy underlying that section.
Section 15(7) evidences a belief on the part of Congress that the normal hearing and reparation processes of the ICC are not sufficient to protect the public against potentially excessive charges.
The need for this protection is no less in the case of initial rates than in the case of changed rates.
Absent a specific legislative decision that initial rates are not covered, it would be illogical to assume that Congress intended to leave such a gap in the legislative scheme.
2.
The suggested interim rates The petitioners challenge the action of the Commission with respect to suggested interim rates.
They point out that 15(7) contains no provisions for establishing interim rates and that, in any event, rates can only be prescribed after full hearings.
See 49 U.S.C.A. 15(1) .
The Commission's position is that it has not actually fixed a rate but, in a situation of urgent national interest and as an incident of its power to suspend, it has given advance indication of the maximum rates with respect to which--if the carriers elect to file them--the Commission will not exercise its power to suspend.
The Commission Order refers to "interim rates," but baldly describing the issue as the power of the Commission to set interim rates is misleading.
As we have held, the Commission had the power to unconditionally suspend the proposed tariffs, leaving the carriers without any tariffs but free to file new tariffs if they wished, which would be subject to new exercise of the Commission's power to suspend.
The ICC chose not to exercise to its full limits the drastic but available power of unconditional suspension and instead announced that if petitioners would file interim tariffs at or below Commission-announced ceilings the Commission would not unconditionally suspend the tariffs originally filed.
The petitioners maintain that the 15(7) power to suspend is an all or nothing instrument.
We think not.
The Commission may elect to exercise its power less than fully, or putting it another way, may partially waive the suspension power.
We are guided by the Supreme Court's decision in U. S. v. Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad Co. , 426 U.S. 500 , 96 S.Ct. 2318 , 49 L.Ed.2d 14 (1976) ( "Chessie " ).
In Chessie the ICC suspended a carrier-proposed tariff increase but at the same time authorized the railroads to refile, incorporating conditions which would assure that the additional revenue would be expended on capital improvements and deferred maintenance.
The Supreme Court upheld the refiling provision as directly related to the ICC's suspension power.
The Court noted that the ICC could simply suspend the originally proposed rates for the full statutory seven-month period but that instead "it pursued a more measured course and offered an alternative tailored far more precisely to the particular circumstances presented."
426 U.S. at 514 , 96 S.Ct. at 2325 , 49 L.Ed.2d at 23 .
Chessie establishes the right of the ICC to choose to exercise its suspension power to less than its outer limits in order to meet the needs of a particular situation.
The ICC's authorization to file interim rates was the type of "more measured course" or partial waiver which the Supreme Court approved in Chessie .
Moss v. CAB , 430 F.2d 891 (C.A.D.C., 1970), relied on by the petitioners, is not to the contrary.
In Moss the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia held that the Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) could not, after ex parte meetings with the air carriers, "suggest" a comprehensive rate formula that it would not suspend or investigate.
Moss involved what for all intents and purposes was the establishment of permanent rates.
By attempting to establish a permanent rate structure through its suspension power the CAB took actions which went beyond the strongest action it could have taken under its suspension power, i. e., suspending the proposed increases for 180 days. 49 U.S.C.A. 1482(g) .
In essence what the CAB attempted to do in Moss was to waive a right it did not have.
In contrast, the ICC's suggestion of interim rate ceilings in the present case is an action which is more restrained, or measured, than its right to unconditionally suspend the original, tariff for a period of seven months.
If in seven months the ICC has not completed its investigation, the carriers will be free to levy their originally filed charges subject to a refund order.
Also, in Moss the practical effect of the CAB's actions would have been to immunize the suggested permanent rate structure from judicial review.
14 In the present case the ICC has not sought to shield its final decision from judicial review.
Instead the Commission has commenced hearings on the original rates proposed by the petitioners, and any eventual final order stemming from those hearings is subject to judicial scrutiny.
In a case involving initial rates, if the ICC could not couple its suspension order with a statement of maximum allowable interim ceilings, the Commission would be forced to allow initial rates to go into effect, even if facially outrageous, subject only to lengthy investigation and hearing procedures, or to watch a possibly vital public service close down for want of a rate schedule.
We doubt the Congress would have intended that the Commission face that Hobson's choice.
The use of interim rates as a condition to a suspension order is not unprecedented.
In I & S Docket No. 8645, Orders (May 27, 1971, and June 29, 1971) the Commission ordered that increased lighterage charges proposed by the Penn Central Railroad be suspended but allowed the company to file interim rates containing additional charges not to exceed 50% of those initially proposed.
The ICC's orders also required that Penn Central maintain an account from which refunds could be made to the extent that the proposed tariffs could not be justified to the Commission.
In Port of New York Authority v. U. S. , 451 F.2d 783, 785-88 (CA2, 1971), the Second Circuit held that the Order was unreviewable and that federal courts lacked subject matter jurisdiction over an action challenging the Order.
We conclude that the ICC as corollary to its suspension power had the power to set out allowable rate ceilings for the seven-month period which, if filed, it would not suspend.
Therefore, this aspect of its Order is not reviewable by this court.
3.
The refund provisions As a condition precedent to the interim rates which the Commission stated it would accept, the Commission required the carriers to establish refund provisions for use in the event that either the interim rates or the originally filed tariffs 15 or both should be found to be excessive.
With respect to this exercise of power for the seven-month period, like the power to suggest the interim rates themselves, we find this is a valid corollary to the suspension power, which we lack jurisdiction to review.
See Port of New York Authority v. U. S. , supra .
We are less certain of the Commission's power to require the carriers to establish refund provisions with respect to the originally filed rates.
However, we view this exercise of power as corollary to the power to suspend.
Thus, insofar as the Commission's order reaches beyond the seven-month period, we are guided by Chassie , where the condition upheld by the Supreme Court was permanent.
16 4.
Arbitrariness and confiscation The petitioners assert that the Commission action was an abuse of discretion and that the interim rate ceilings are so grossly insufficient that they are confiscatory in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
Restating, we understand these contentions to be that even if the Commission is authorized by 15(7) to act with respect to the subject matter, its exercise of power departed from constitutional standards.
Assuming that we can review the Commission Order through these constitutional entry points the record before us gives no basis upon which we can act.
All motions to intervene are GRANTED.
All motions for stay, suspension, injunction and other forms of interlocutory relief are DENIED.
The motion of the United States to dismiss the petitions for review is GRANTED.
