 AINSWORTH , Circuit Judge: The United States brought a proceeding to condemn land owned by the Bodcaw Company, and deposited $99,650 in the court registry as the estimated just compensation for the taking.
The Bodcaw Company responded that the amount tendered by the Government was inadequate, and also sought compensation for the expenses of appraising the land and for expert witness fees.
A jury trial resulted in an award in favor of the Bodcaw Company for $146,206 as the value of the land, and $20,512.50 was granted to reimburse the appraisal and expert witness expenses incurred by the company.
The Government contends that the award of appraisal and expert witness fees is not authorized either by statute or by the Fifth Amendment.
We conclude that the appraisal expenses in this case are part of the just compensation mandated by the Fifth Amendment, 1 but that the expert witness fees are not compensable, and therefore remand for an allocation of the $20,512.50 between appraisal and expert witness fees, and entry of an appropriate judgment.
The sole issue is whether the appraisal and expert witness fees are elements of just compensation, or whether such expenses are better characterized as "costs" which cannot be taxed against the United States in this condemnation proceeding.
2 Thus, our function under the circumstances here is to interpret the Fifth Amendment, not to construe a federal statute.
It is well settled that attorneys' fees and court costs are not part of just compensation, see, e. g. , United States v. 2,353.28 Acres of Land , 5 Cir., 1969, 414 F.2d 965, 972 , and cannot, with limited exceptions, be taxed to the Government in condemnation cases.
3 However, not every expense incurred in connection with a condemnation proceeding is a noncompensable "cost."
See United States v. Lee , 5 Cir., 1966, 360 F.2d 449 .
In Lee the Government described a tract of land by metes and bounds, but underestimated the acreage.
The landowner complained that the estimated acreage was less than the amount stated on his deeds.
Nevertheless, the Government refused to survey the tract, and the landowner then conducted a survey which confirmed his suspicion that the size of his property had been underestimated.
The Fifth Circuit noted the special need for an independent survey in that case, as the landowner had several deeds to the property, on which the stated acreage of the tract varied.
The court recognized the validity of the general proposition that costs cannot be taxed to the United States in condemnation proceedings, but determined that the expense of surveying the land to determine the actual acreage was not such a cost.
In explaining its decision, the court stated that Id. at 452 In concluding, the court emphasized that it was not holding that every survey undertaken by a landowner faced with condemnation must be paid by the Government, but only that compensation was equitable under the facts of that case. 4 The critical question is whether Lee 's reasoning in regard to survey expenses applies to the appraisal costs incurred in this case. The court in Lee emphasized that the determination of just compensation was equitable in nature, and was therefore dependent on the factual context and equities of each case. In addition, the Lee court stated that the central goal of just compensation was to place the landowner in as good a financial position as he would have been absent the taking of his property.
These factors are equally present in this case. The land taken by the Government was not of such character that accurate estimates of value easily could be made.
5 Instead, the property taken stretched in a very narrow strip for miles along the bank of a waterway, and had not recently been appraised.
The Government made no effort to conduct an on-site appraisal until 1974, nearly three years after this suit was filed and the original $99,650 estimate deposited in the court registry.
The $99,650 offered by the United States was nearly $45,000 less than the sum actually awarded by the jury.
Thus, the factors stressed by the court in Lee --unusual factual circumstances and equitable considerations--support the award of appraisal expenses here.
Under the facts of this case, we cannot conclude that the Bodcaw Company has been made whole for the Government's taking of its land if the large amount expended by it for appraisals in order to demonstrate the unfairness of the price offered by the United States is not considered an element of just compensation.
The noncompensability of attorney's fees and court costs does not require a holding that every analogous expense is noncompensable.
In determining just compensation in condemnation cases, our central concern is to do justice, and in this case we find that justice and equity support the award of appraisal fees.
6 However, this court has previously recognized that expert witness fees are viewed as costs.
See, e. g. , Henning v. Lake Charles Harbor & Terminal District , 5 Cir., 1968, 387 F.2d 264, 267 ("United States District Courts have no authority to tax costs for compensation to expert witnesses in excess of the statutory .
.
.
allowance.")
7 Witness fees are included as "costs" under 28 U.S.C. 1920(3) .
Since we accept the Lee court's distinction between expenses that are "costs" and those that are "part of the just compensation contemplated under the Constitution," 360 F.2d at 452 , we conclude that the traditional identification of expert witness fees with the costs of litigation indicates that such expenses should not be considered compensable in this condemnation proceeding.
We therefore remand the case to the district court to determine the amount of expenses attributable to expert witness fees, to deduct this amount from the award, and to enter an appropriate judgment for the balance.
AFFIRMED in part, REVERSED in part, and REMANDED.
