 AINSWORTH , Circuit Judge: Arthur Sanders, William Walter, Gulf Coast News Agency, Inc. ("Gulf Coast News") and Trans World America, Inc. ("TWA") appeal their convictions under 18 U.S.C. 371 for conspiring knowingly to use a common carrier to ship obscene materials interstate, in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1462 , and knowingly to transport obscene matter interstate for the purpose of sale or distribution, in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1465 .
Sanders, Walter and Gulf Coast News also challenge their convictions for substantive violations of sections 1462 and 1465.
1 Appellants all allege an unconstitutional search and seizure and attack the district court's jury instructions on obscenity; appellant Walter further contends that he "was not shown to possess the requisite scienter."
We find these assertions to be without merit and therefore affirm the convictions.
I. Facts According to the testimony at trial, on September 15, 1975, Richard Larson, the manager of appellant Gulf Coast News, located in St. Petersburg, Florida, ordered an employee to deliver 12 cartons, containing a series of 8 mm.
films entitled "David's Boys," 2 to Greyhound Bus Package Express in St. Petersburg for shipment to Atlanta.
The packages had a nonexistent return address and named a fictitious corporation, "D and L Distributors," as shipper.
Described as containing printed matter, they were sent on a "will call" basis to "Leggs, Inc.," another fictitious company.
"Legs" was the nickname of a female employee at appellant TWA's Atlanta headquarters.
When the cartons reached Atlanta, Greyhound forwarded them to a branch station located near L'Eggs Products, Inc. ("L'Eggs"), a manufacturer of women's hosiery and regular customer of Greyhound Package Express.
After Greyhound informed L'Eggs of the shipment, Michael Horton, a L'Eggs Products employee, came to the terminal, opened one of the cartons and discovered that it contained sexually explicit movies.
Horton returned to the L'Eggs office and described the package's contents to a superior, William Fox.
Concerned that his company might be implicated in the transportation of pornographic films, Fox drove to the Greyhound station and brought the 12 cartons to the L'Eggs office.
He and several other employees opened all the packages and found individual boxes of film.
The top of each film box showed the name "David's Boys" and a drawing of two nude males embracing and kissing; on the back of each were the title of the individual movie and a detailed description, in explicit terms, of the bizarre homosexual acts depicted in the film.
Fox then telephoned the FBI, explained the nature of the films and asked "them to come out and take the materials away."
The FBI procured the films on October 1, 1975, and subsequently viewed them on a projector at its offices.
No warrant was obtained.
Appellants Walter and Sanders, who jointly operated appellants TWA and Gulf Coast News, were indicted along with both corporations under 18 U.S.C. 371 on one count of conspiring knowingly to use a common carrier to ship obscene materials interstate, in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1462 , and knowingly to transport obscene matter interstate for the purpose of sale and distribution, in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1465 .
Gulf Coast News, Walter and Sanders were also charged with five counts of substantive violations of section 1462 and five substantive violations of section 1465 .
3 The jury convicted TWA of conspiracy and returned guilty verdicts as to Walter, Sanders and Gulf Coast News on all eleven counts.
The district court fined TWA $10,000, Gulf Coast News $33,000 and sentenced both Walter and Sanders to three years in prison on each count, to run concurrently.
II.
The Constitutionality of the Search and Seizure Appellants first urge that the district court committed reversible error in failing to suppress the five films admitted in evidence at trial.
Since appellants TWA and Gulf made no pretrial motion to suppress, they cannot raise this issue on appeal.
United States v. Bush , 5 Cir., 1978, 582 F.2d 1016, 1018 .
Though appellants Sanders and Walter each made a timely motion to suppress and return the films, the district court sought to determine at the outset whether they had standing to challenge the constitutionality of the search and seizure.
To establish such standing under traditional Fourth Amendment analysis, a defendant must either show presence on the searched premises at the time of search, allege a proprietary or possessory interest in the premises or objects searched or be charged with an offense that includes as an essential element possession of the seized evidence at the time of the contested search and seizure.
See Brown v. United States , 411 U.S. 223, 229 , 93 S.Ct. 1565, 1569 , 36 L.Ed.2d 208 (1973); United States v. Hunt , 5 Cir., 1974, 505 F.2d 931, 939-40 .
"Generally, a defendant satisfies the standing requirement if he has an adequate possessory interest in the place or object searched to give rise to a reasonable expectation of privacy."
United States v. Hunt , supra , 505 F.2d at 938 .
In denying appellants' suppression motion, the district judge held that "shipping or causing or suffering to be shipped by a common carrier .
.
.
with a fictitious name given for the shipper as well as the fictitious name given for the consignee or addressee, amounts to a relinquishment or abandonment of any reasonable expectation of privacy.
Or, stated another way, it seems to me that it was reasonably foreseeable that what actually occurred would occur.
That is to say, that there was substantial likelihood that the material would be misdelivered and fall into the hands of some third party, as actually happened in this case, where it would be opened and its privacy, if it had any, invaded."
There is merit in the district court's conclusion.
However, the Supreme Court has recently "dispens[ed] with the rubric of standing .
.
.
by frankly recognizing that this aspect of the analysis belongs more properly under the heading of substantive Fourth Amendment doctrine," Rakas v. Illinois , U.S. , 99 S.Ct. 421, 429 , 58 L.Ed.2d 387 (1978) so we will focus "on the extent of a particular defendant's rights under the Fourth Amendment, rather than on any theoretically separate, but invariably intertwined concept of standing."
Id .
, U.S. at , 99 S.Ct. at 428 .
A. The Search by L'Eggs Products Employees Appellants Sanders and Walter argue that the L'Eggs Products employees, in opening the 12 cartons and examining their contents without a warrant, conducted an unconstitutional search.
The Fourth Amendment's warrant requirement, of course, is intended solely "as a restraint upon the activities of sovereign authority," Burdeau v. McDowell , 256 U.S. 465, 475 , 41 S.Ct. 574, 576 , 65 L.Ed. 1048 (1921), and "a search .
.
.
conducted by a private individual for purely private reasons, .
.
does not fall within the protective ambit of the Fourth Amendment."
United States v. Lamar , 5 Cir., 1977, 545 F.2d 488, 489-90 ; United States v. Jones , 5 Cir., 1972, 457 F.2d 697, 699 ; Barnes v. United States , 5 Cir., 1967, 373 F.2d 517, 518 .
However, if under the circumstances of the case the private party "acted as an 'instrument' or 'agent' of the government," the ostensibly "private" search must meet the amendment's standards.
United States v. Bomengo , 5 Cir., 1978, 580 F.2d 173, 175 .
See Lustig v. United States , 338 U.S. 74, 79 , 69 S.Ct. 1372, 1374 , 93 L.Ed. 1819 (1949).
Before the L'Eggs Products employees ever contacted the FBI, they had on their own initiative taken the shipment of films from the bus terminal, opened the cartons, examined the individual film boxes and ascertained the nature of the films.
Since "there is no indication in the record" that in so doing the L'Eggs employees "acted at the behest or suggestion, with the aid, advice or encouragement, or under the direction or influence of the F.B.I.," we conclude that these activities constituted a private search, beyond the scope of the Fourth Amendment.
United States v. Clegg , 5 Cir., 1975, 509 F.2d 605, 609 .
B. FBI Acceptance of the Films Nevertheless, Sanders and Walter contend that the FBI unconstitutionally seized the films, by accepting them from the L'Eggs employees without obtaining a warrant.
In making this assertion, they rely principally on the Eighth Circuit's decision in United States v. Kelly , 1976, 529 F.2d 1365 .
There, an employee of a common carrier discovered that a ripped-open carton of goods contained sexually explicit books and magazines and called the FBI, which sent an agent who examined several of the magazines and retained samples, without obtaining a warrant.
Although the Kelly court said that the common carrier's search was private, it held that the Government's subsequent acceptance of the fruits constituted a seizure requiring a warrant, "unless there are special circumstances which excuse compliance with the .
.
.
warrant requirement," decided that no exception to that requirement applied and concluded that the warrantless "seizure" was "so unreasonable as to necessitate the operation of the exclusionary rule."
Id. at 1371 .
The result in Kelly conflicts with the reasoning implicit in a long line of private search decisions by the Supreme Court and this circuit.
In every such case, introducing the fruits of a private search as evidence was impossible unless the private party had at some point surrendered the articles to the Government.
Yet neither we nor the Supreme Court have ever held that government acceptance of those articles constitutes a seizure requiring compliance with the warrant requirement, even in cases where no exception to that requirement would have covered the Government's action.
See, e. g. , Burdeau v. McDowell , 256 U.S. 465 , 41 S.Ct. 574 , 65 L.Ed. 1048 (1921); United States v. Lamar , 5 Cir., 1977, 545 F.2d 488 ; United States v. Blanton , 5 Cir., 1973, 479 F.2d 327 ; Barnes v. United States , 5 Cir., 1967, 373 F.2d 517 .
Thus, we decline to accept the Kelly court's analysis.
In United States v. Sherwin , 9 Cir., 1976, 539 F.2d 1 , the Ninth Circuit, sitting en banc, also rejected the Kelly rationale.
Sherwin also involved a common carrier employee who examined the contents of damaged packages, discovered sexually explicit books and called the FBI, which sent agents who removed two books from the shipment, without a warrant.
Citing Kelly , the Sherwin defendants argued on appeal that "a seizure to which the fourth amendment is applicable occurred .
.
.
when the F.B.I.
agents obtained the two books" from the common carrier, id. at 7 , but the Ninth Circuit did "not regard the government's acceptance of materials obtained in a private search to be a seizure" and concluded that "the fourth amendment [is] not implicated when articles discovered in a private search [are] voluntarily turned over to the government."
Id.
We agree with the Ninth Circuit's reasoning.
Under the circumstances, we hold that the FBI's acceptance of the "David's Boys" films from the L'Eggs employees was not a seizure within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment.
C. Viewing of the Films Appellants Sanders and Walter further assert, basing their argument on another Eighth Circuit case, United States v. Haes , 1977, 551 F.2d 767 , that the Government conducted an additional unconstitutional search by viewing the films on a movie projector without obtaining a warrant.
In Haes , the employee of a common carrier, seeking to identify the consignee of a shipment, opened a package, discovered sexually explicit films and contacted the FBI, which sent two agents with a movie projector to the common carrier's office, where the films were screened without first obtaining a warrant.
Declaring that "the inquiry must be whether the government" thereby undertook "any new or different searches," the Eighth Circuit said that the Government's viewing of the films "changed the nature of the search," because the private search had involved no such screening, and held that the search was illegal, since no exception to the warrant requirement applied.
Id. at 773-74 .
Unlike Haes , however, where the private party "had not viewed the films and had not attempted to make a decision as to whether or not they were obscene," id. at 771 , the L'Eggs employees were able to make "a determination of possible obscenity prior to turning the films over to the FBI," 4 id. at 772 , by examining the individual boxes containing the films.
In this case, the legend "David's Boys" and a cartoon of two nude males kissing and embracing appeared on one side of each film box; the other side carried the title of the individual film and a detailed description, in language of the utmost explicitness, of the bizarre homosexual acts depicted in the movie.
5 Under these circumstances, since the L'Eggs employees so fully ascertained the nature of the films before contacting the authorities, we find that the FBI's subsequent viewing of the movies on a projector did not "change the nature of the search" and was not an additional search subject to the warrant requirement.
6 We have held that the reopening and reinspection of a bag by government authorities following a private search does not constitute a separate, independent search requiring a warrant.
United States v. McDaniel , 5 Cir., 1978, 574 F.2d 1224, 1226-27 ; United States v. Blanton , 5 Cir., 1973, 479 F.2d 327, 328 .
These decisions support our conclusion on this issue, for in our view, "much less than reopening and reinspection of the box and its contents was the activity of the FBI" here.
7 United States v. Pryba , 1974, 163 U.S.App.D.C.
389, 399 , 502 F.2d 391, 401 .
8 See also United States v. Ford , 10 Cir., 1975, 525 F.2d 1308, 1312 .
9 III.
Walter's Scienter Appellant Walter contends that there was insufficient evidence to sustain his conviction, because the Government failed to establish a "close nexus" between him and "a specific shipment of proved obscene matter" and because there was no evidence as to scienter.
This assertion is meritless, as there was ample evidence to support the jury's finding that Walter knowingly used a common carrier to ship obscene materials interstate, knowingly transported obscene matter interstate for the purpose of sale or distribution and knew the obscene nature of the films shipped interstate.
According to the testimony at trial, Walter and Sanders jointly operated an extensive network of adult cinemas, bookstores and distribution warehouses, which included appellants TWA and Gulf Coast News.
Ernest Golden, who had served as accountant and bookkeeper for these various enterprises, testified that he received instructions from both Walter and Sanders when keeping accounts and preparing tax returns for a number of corporations, including TWA and Gulf Coast News.
William Boshell, who succeeded Golden as accountant, testified that Walter and Sanders both supplied him with the business records of the various corporations.
He said that Walter, Sanders and all the corporations had their offices at TWA and added that he was paid with a TWA check for services rendered to the other businesses.
John Catoe, an employee of Walter and Sanders, related at trial that both men told him in 1973 that they were planning a new corporation to distribute sexually explicit materials and that Sanders later stated that this corporation was TWA.
According to Catoe, he and all other TWA employees received work instructions from both Walter and Sanders.
Catoe also said that when the two men sent him to Florida to manage a new bookstore in June 1975, they explained that Gulf Coast News had been established to supply their Florida operations.
In addition, Catoe stated that Walter gave him expense money and ordered him to follow the directions of Richard Larson, the manager of Gulf Coast News, whom Catoe had met at TWA when Larson was being trained.
Ronald Bowman, the Gulf Coast News employee who delivered the "David's Boys" films to Greyhound's St. Petersburg terminal, testified that on one visit to the Gulf Coast News warehouse Sanders was introduced as the man "[y]ou will be working for" and that on another occasion Walter was introduced as Sanders' partner.
Bowman also recalled that Richard Larson described the two as partners and identified as theirs the desks in the back of the warehouse.
Finally, Carol Maxey, Sanders' former girl friend, testified that Sanders told her that he and Walter jointly owned a number of businesses, including Gulf Coast News.
Given the foregoing testimony describing Walter's central role in the management of TWA, Gulf Coast News and other companies involved in the distribution and sale of hardcore pornography, we do not believe that "the jury must necessarily have had a reasonable doubt" that he possessed the requisite scienter, United States v. Warner , 5 Cir., 1971, 441 F.2d 821, 825 , cert. denied , 404 U.S. 829 , 92 S.Ct. 65 , 30 L.Ed.2d 58 (1971).
Accordingly, we conclude that there was sufficient evidence to support Walter's conviction.
III.
The District Court's Instructions on Contemporary Community Standards Finally, appellants challenge the district court's jury instructions regarding the community standards element of the definition of obscenity.
They contend that Pinkus v. United States , 436 U.S. 293 , 98 S.Ct. 1808 , 56 L.Ed.2d 293 (1978) and our subsequent decision in United States v. Bush , supra , required the trial judge expressly to charge the jury not to consider children in determining the contemporary standards of "the average person of the community as a whole."
We reject appellants' expansive reading of Pinkus and Bush and find no error in the district court's instructions.
In Pinkus , the trial judge had charged the jury that, in ascertaining community standards, "'you are to consider the community as a whole, young and old, educated and uneducated, the religious and the irreligious, men, women and children , from all walks of life'."
Pinkus v. United States , supra , 436 U.S. at 296 , 98 S.Ct. at 1811 (emphasis added).
The Supreme Court elected "to take this occasion to make clear that children are not to be included for these purposes as part of the 'community' as that term relates" to the definition of obscenity and therefore held that "it was error to instruct the jury that .
.
.
[children] were a part of the relevant community."
Id. at 1812 .
Similarly, in Bush the district court had told the jury that "you are to consider the community as a whole, young and old , educated and uneducated, religious and the irreligious."
(emphasis added) In holding that this charge constituted reversible error, we reasoned that inclusion of "[t]he phrase 'young and old' .
.
.
provides a jury ample freedom to consider children, and thus does not completely avoid the danger, emphasized in Pinkus , that 'the adult population [will be reduced] to reading only what is fit for children.'"
(citation omitted) 582 F.2d at 1021-22 .
Here, however, unlike the instructions in Pinkus and Bush , the trial judge's charge did not prescribe jury consideration of "children" or "young people" in determining community standards.
The district court told the jurors to judge the obscenity of the films by whether their "predominant appeal .
.
.
viewed in [their] entirety, is to the prurient interest of the average person of the community as a whole , or the prurient interest of a deviant sexual group, as the case might be, and is so patently offensive that it is utterly without redeeming social value."
(emphasis added) The judge further explained that "[w]hether the predominant theme or purpose of the material is an appeal to the prurient interest of the 'average person of the community as a whole' is a judgment which must be made in light of contemporary standards as would be applied by the average person with an average and normal attitude toward, and an average interest in, sex ."
(emphasis added) This instruction adequately directed jury consideration to the contemporary standards of adults and thereby avoided the danger emphasized in Pinkus and Bush .
We have carefully examined appellants' remaining assertions 10 and conclude that they are meritless.
Accordingly, we affirm the judgments of conviction as to all appellants.
AFFIRMED.
