 MERRILL , Circuit Judge: This is an appeal from a decision of the Tax Court holding that appellant George F. Jewett, Jr., made taxable gifts when he executed disclaimers of his remainder interest in a testamentary trust.
1 We affirm.
The facts are not in dispute.
Appellant's grandmother, Margaret Jewett, a resident of Massachusetts, died in 1939, and by her will created a trust with income to go to her husband, James, during his lifetime, and thereafter to her son, George, and his wife, Mary, during their respective lifetimes.
Mary is now the sole surviving life tenant.
When she dies, Margaret Jewett's will provides for distribution of the trust corpus in equal shares to the children of George and Mary then living.
Appellant George F. Jewett, Jr., is one of those children.
In 1972, he executed two disclaimers, the first for 95 percent and a later one for the remaining 5 percent of his interest in the trust remainder.
The parties have stipulated that appellant thus had no share in the trust remainder after December 14, 1972.
The issue in this case is whether these disclaimers are subject to gift tax under applicable law. 26 U.S.C. 2501 provides in part: "A tax is hereby imposed on the transfer of property by gift *."
Section 2511(a) makes it clear that the tax imposed by 2501 is to cover all types of property interests.
The tax "shall apply whether the transfer is in trust or otherwise, whether the gift is direct or indirect, and whether the property is real or personal, tangible or intangible *."
A contingent remainder subject to divestiture, such as appellant's, is not excepted.
Treas.Reg.
25.2511-1 (c) reads in part: 25.2512-8 sic 2 It is undisputed that the disclaimer was effective under Massachusetts law, the law governing the administration of the estate.
The only question presented is whether the disclaimer was made within a reasonable time after knowledge of the transfer.
This, in turn, depends on our construction of the word "transfer."
If it refers to the date when the interest created by the trust was established, the disclaimer clearly was not timely.
If "transfer" means the acquisition of a vested interest by virtue of the death of the life beneficiary, then the disclaimer was timely, since the life tenant is still living.
Appellants contend that a disclaimer valid and effective under state law is not a taxable transfer for federal gift tax purposes and that the "reasonable time" to which the regulation refers is measured from the time when the remainderman comes into his right to possess and control the property-in this case, after the death of the life beneficiary.
Appellants rely on Keinath v. C. I. R. , 480 F.2d 57 (8th Cir. 1973).
3 In Keinath , the court characterized the requirements of the regulation that the disclaimer be unequivocal and effective under local law, and that it be made within a reasonable time as "but a codification of common law principles applicable to the doctrine of disclaimer."
d. at 61 .
Absent a federal statute or regulation defining "reasonable time," the court held that it must look to the law of the state for guidance.
This inquiry led it to conclude that: Id. at 64 .
We must respectfully disagree.
State law does indeed generally recognize as valid a disclaimer of a contingent remainder if it is made within a reasonable time after the remainder interest has vested unconditionally.
Timeliness there relates only to the validity and effectiveness of the disclaimer.
The federal regulation, however, has a different concern.
It proceeds upon the assumption (actually, the requirement) that the disclaimer is valid under state law and thus has met the requirements of local law as to timeliness, whatever they may be.
The question under the federal regulation, then, is not whether the disclaimer is valid, but whether, as a valid disclaimer, it is taxable as a gift.
The timeliness requirement of the regulation is over and above the requirements of state law.
We hold that "transfer" as used in the regulation means the transfer to the disclaimant of the property interest disclaimed by him.
In this case, that transfer took place in 1939 when the appellant received a contingent remainder from his deceased grandmother's estate.
Appellant had "knowledge of the existence of [that] transfer" for approximately 33 years before he attempted to disclaim the property in 1972.
For the purposes of the gift tax, we hold that that disclaimer was not made within a reasonable period of time.
Judgment affirmed.
