 MacKINNON , Circuit Judge: The appellees, Sadlowski, Jr., et al., attack Article V, Section 27 of the Constitution of the United Steelworkers of America (Union) which prohibits a candidate for Union office from receiving any campaign contributions from persons who are not members of the Union.
In the hotly contested election for International President of the United Steelworkers of America in 1977, Edward Sadlowski, Jr., the defeated candidate, received substantial financial support from nonmembers and made a very substantial run against the candidate supported by the incumbent leadership.
Shortly thereafter the Union amended its Constitution in Article V, Section 27 to prohibit absolutely any outside financial contributions.
Sadlowski and others then brought this action to invalidate the "outsider" rule, claiming that the rule violated their rights under the First Amendment, the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), 29 U.S.C. 151-168 , and the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 (LMRDA), 29 U.S.C. 401-531 .
On cross-motions for summary judgment the district court held the outsider rule violated rights of union members protected by the right to sue provision in the Bill of Rights for Union members included in the LMRDA, 29 U.S.C. 411(a)(4) , and declared Section 27 invalid in its entirety.
The Union filed this appeal and, since the next election for international officers is scheduled for May 28, 1981, the case has been given expedited consideration.
We affirm, with one minor exception, the order declaring Article V, Section 27 invalid and enjoining the Union from enforcing it.
I. BACKGROUND In the 1977 election for International President of the United Steelworkers of America--which has some 1.3 million members--Edward Sadlowski, Jr., opposed Lloyd McBride in a heated campaign to succeed the retiring I. W. Abel.
McBride enjoyed the support of the Union's incumbent leadership; Sadlowski was the insurgent challenger.
1 [**191] Sadlowski received substantial campaign contributions from sources outside the Union, and McBride received most of his financial support from the staff of the Union.
Sadlowski received 249,281 votes to McBride's 328,861 and the other members of his insurgent slate were also defeated.
He contested the validity of the election, but the Secretary of Labor refused to initiate legal proceedings to overturn the announced result, and a legal challenge to the Secretary's refusal failed.
See Sadlowski v. Marshall , 464 F.Supp.
858 (D.D.C.
), aff'd mem. , No. 79-1461 (D.C.Cir.1979), cert. denied , 447 U.S. 905 , 100 S.Ct. 2987 , 64 L.Ed.2d 854 (1980).
The next biennial convention of the Union in 1978 enacted Article V, Section 27 (set forth as an Appendix to this opinion) as an amendment to the Union Constitution.
In addition to imposing a blanket prohibition on campaign contributions by persons other than union members (with an exception for volunteered time), Section 27 empowered the International Executive Board to promulgate implementing regulations and created the Campaign Contribution Administrative Committee "to administer and enforce" the outsider rule.
The rule represents the first attempt by an American labor union to so restrict financial support for candidates for union office. 2 Sadlowski and others 3 brought suit in late 1979 to challenge the validity of the outsider rule.
The Union and the Secretary of Labor were named as defendants.
Plaintiffs complained that the outsider rule violated the First Amendment rights of both members and nonmembers; the National Labor Relations Act since it must be read consonant with the First Amendment; the right to sue provision of the LMRDA; and section 401(g) of the LMRDA, 29 U.S.C. 481(g) , which prohibits candidates for union office from receiving campaign contributions from employers or union funds.
After various motions to dismiss and for summary judgment were filed and argued, the district court granted plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment on their right to sue claim and the Secretary's motion to dismiss the case as to him for lack of jurisdiction.
Plaintiffs' remaining motions were denied and the Union's remaining countermotions were granted.
The Union and the plaintiffs have appealed those parts of the district court's order that were adverse to them.
II.
ANALYSIS A. The Right to Sue The district court held the outsider rule violated section 101(a)(4) of the LMRDA, 29 U.S.C. 411(a)(4) , the so-called [**192] right to sue provision.
The outsider rule attempts to accomplish its purpose of outlawing outside campaign contributions in a single sentence, which provides: Section 1 The right to sue provision, found in the Bill of Rights for Union Members 5 section of the LMRDA, states: 29 U.S.C. 411(a)(4) .
We have no difficulty in ruling that the outsider rule on its face violates this right to sue provision.
The language of the rule prohibiting candidates from receiving any financial support is all-encompassing and absolute.
It prohibits the solicitation or acceptance of "financial support, or any other direct or indirect support of any kind" from a nonmember, except for time volunteered by an individual.
This blanket prohibition, inter alia , would stop a candidate from using outside money to pay for a lawyer's services, from accepting the services of a lawyer for a reduced rate, or from accepting the donated services of a lawyer if the lawyer's typist, secretary or other helper contributed to the product.
One need look no further than the 1977 election for International President to see the crucial role that a lawyer's advice and other services play in an insurgent's quest for office against candidates supported by entrenched incumbents.
Prior to the election Sadlowski filed several lawsuits and defended others.
He also filed suits after the election.
This background strongly indicates that restricting a member's right to sue was one of the Union's purposes in prohibiting outside financial support.
The Union claims that a construction of the outsider rule by the Campaign Contribution Administrative Committee (Administrative Committee) demonstrates the outsider rule does not affect the rights protected by section 101(a)(4) .
Shortly after plaintiffs filed this lawsuit the Union's lawyer requested the Administrative Committee to issue an advisory opinion concerning the impact of the outsider rule on the right to sue.
The Committee cast the question before it as constitutes support for the purpose of influencing an election Union's Brief at A-3 (emphasis added).
The Committee concluded that the outsider rule did not prohibit contributions to finance litigation, stating: [**193] Id .
at A-4.
We have difficulty accepting this formulation of the issue or this construction of the expansive prohibition stated in the outsider rule.
6 We need not determine whether this construction saves the rule, however, because the Administrative Committee later confused the matter in an attempt to explain the limits of the opinion and in responding to a supplemental question.
The opinion continued, bona fide Id .
at A-5.
The district court was greatly concerned by the question, left open by the advisory opinion, of "whether member-candidates can be disqualified or disciplined for retaining counsel [with outside financial support] and bringing suit which the Committee or the union later determines was not bona fide ."
App. at 55.
We are vexed as well, but a subsequent regulation promulgated by the International Executive Board and adopted by the Union at its 1980 convention as a part of the International Union Elections Manual causes us even greater concern.
The relevant provision states: Section 27 Activities which are designed to extract political gain from legal proceedings are subject to the support limitations of Section 27 Union Motion for Partial Stay at Appendix C-4 (Feb. 5, 1981) (emphasis added).
Under this construction a candidate for union office would apparently be allowed to receive volunteered or reduced-rate legal services and to accept and solicit from nonmembers contributions to finance "legal services performed in assuring compliance with applicable election laws or in securing, defending, or clarifying legal rights of candidates."
This categorization may or may not include all of the legitimate legal proceedings that a candidate for office may instigate or defend.
Even if it does, the candidate cannot accept or solicit campaign contributions to be expended for "[a]ctivities which are designed to extract political gain from legal proceedings."
The Union suggested at oral argument that this statement restricts a candidate only from using outsider money to finance non-litigation activities that in some way refer to litigation, such as mailing a flyer announcing [**194] a victory in a lawsuit or some information learned during discovery or trial.
We cannot accept this limited construction.
As we read the last sentence of the regulation, "activities" includes steps in the legal proceedings themselves, so that, for instance, if the filing of a complaint, the serving of interrogatories or the taking of a deposition is "designed to extract political gain," it would be subject to the contribution limitations.
This broad limitation on the right to sue subsumes whatever limit resulted from the Administrative Committee's hedging on the question whether a lawsuit "motivated solely by a desire to promote a candidate's political campaign," which is "not a bona fide attempt to secure an adjudication of legal rights," would be subject to the contribution restrictions.
Under the regulation a candidate could not receive outside assistance to finance a lawsuit even if brought in good faith and not motivated solely by a desire to advance his campaign if it was designed to extract political gain.
One would go a far distance to find any lawsuit brought during the heat of a campaign that was not designed to extract political gain.
The regulation places a severe limitation on the right to sue.
The right to sue guaranteed union members by the Bill of Rights of LMRDA is a grant of an absolute right which cannot be diminished by only permitting those suits that a union might find to be bona fide or not designed to extract political benefit.
The outsider rule in Section 27 on its face clearly violates the rights of union members protected by the right to sue guarantee of the LMRDA.
The Union's attempts to construe the rule against its plain meaning have been unpersuasive.
We now turn to what is perhaps the core issue in this case--the proper scope of the remedy for the violation of the right to sue.
B. The Appropriate Remedy The Union argues that if we find, as we have, that the outsider rule violates the right to sue, then "[a]t most, plaintiffs would be entitled to an injunction prohibiting application or enforcement of that provision to interfere with the solicitation or acceptance of contributions from nonmembers to finance litigation."
Union's Brief at 40.
The Union has suggested the form of an injunction that it believes would prevent the outsider rule from infringing on the rights protected by 101(a)(4).
7 Much of the parties' arguments on the proper scope of the remedy have focused on whether or not we can "separate" the application of the outsider rule that violates the right to sue from the remaining applications of the rule.
Although we believe that the entire rule must fall, it is not because of our adherence to some formalistic nonseparability rule.
Instead, we believe the remaining applications of that rule must fall because they violate the freedom of speech provision as guaranteed by section 101(a)(2) of the Bill of Rights of the LMRDA, 29 U.S.C. 411(a)(2) .
The Union contends that plaintiffs cannot now rely on section 101(a)(2) because they did not raise it in the district court.
The general rule is that an appellate court does not consider issues not raised in the trial court.
E. g. , Miller v. Avirom , 384 F.2d 319 (D.C.Cir.1967).
This general rule, however, is not absolute--the Supreme Court has stated that "[t]he matter of what questions may be taken up and resolved for the first time on appeal is one left primarily to the discretion of the courts of appeals, to be exercised on the facts of individual cases."
Singleton v. Wulff , 428 U.S. 106, 121 , 96 S.Ct. 2868, 2877 , 49 L.Ed.2d 826 (1976).
See Hormel v. Helvering , 312 U.S. 552, 557 , 61 S.Ct. 719, 721 , 85 L.Ed. 1037 (1947) [**195] .
An example of this discretion is incorporated in the widely acknowledged rule that Winter v. Local 639, International Brotherhood of Teamsters , 569 F.2d 146, 151 (D.C.Cir.1977) (quoting United States v. General Motors Corp. , 518 F.2d 420, 441 (D.C.Cir.1975)).
Accord, e. g. , C. Wright & A. Miller, 10 Federal Practice and Procedure 2716 , at 440 (1973).
Typically when summary judgments are upheld on grounds different from those relied on by the district court, the other grounds were urged at trial.
We must decide whether a different rule should apply in this case when the alternate ground was not explicitly urged before the trial court in the context that it is now presented.
Cf. Merriam v. McConnell , 31 Ill.App.2d 241 , 175 N.E.2d 293, 295 (1961) (decree of dismissal can be sustained "by any argument and upon any basis, appearing in the record, which shows that the decree is right, even if [the party in whose favor the dismissal was granted] had not previously advanced such argument").
We believe that it is appropriate to now consider the impact of section 101(a)(2) .
The issue arising thereunder was argued in the briefs submitted to this court and the essential features of the contention were pleaded in connection with the two causes of action which charged violations of the free speech guarantees of the First Amendment.
Our concern with now ruling on the effect of section 101(a)(2) revolves around the possibility that the Union might have been prejudiced by plaintiffs' failure to raise the issue in the trial court in this precise context.
The only way we perceive the Union could possibly be prejudiced is that it might have constructed a different record for the purposes of summary judgment if a denial of free speech under section 101(a)(2) had been alleged in plaintiffs' complaint in addition to the denial of free speech under the First Amendment.
The issue of the denial of free speech under section 101(a)(2) was implicit in the question whether plaintiffs had been denied free speech under the First Amendment, as alleged in their complaint.
In other words the same argument with respect to the denial of free speech under the First Amendment would have been relevant to an allegation of denial under section 101(a)(2) ; and the opportunity to make such an argument was open to the Union.
Since we construe section 101(a)(2) in this case to place essentially the same limits on labor unions with respect to outside campaign contributions that the First Amendment would if it applied to labor unions, we conclude the Union had ample opportunity to meet the substance of the 101(a)(2) claim.
C. Freedom of Speech and Association The free speech and assembly provision of Labor's Bill of Rights states: to express any views, arguments, or opinions 29 U.S.C. 411(a)(2) (emphasis added).
8 This portion of the LMRDA is patterned after the essential features of the First Amendment, Ostrowski v. Utility Workers Local 1-2 , 104 L.R.R.M.
2343, 2350 (S.D.N.Y.1980), [**196] which provides: "Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech or the right of people peaceably to assemble " U.S.Const.
amend.
I. 9 The LMRDA guarantee of freedom of expression is not confined to the exercise of that right among union members.
Ostrowski v. Utility Workers Local 1-2 , 104 L.R.R.M.
2343, 2350 (S.D.N.Y.1980); Graham v. Soloner , 220 F.Supp.
711, 714 (E.D.Pa.1963).
The provision recognizes the right of union members visit their neighbors discuss the promotion of a union movement perhaps a policy in which they believe 105 Cong.Rec.
6477 (1959) (remarks of Sen.
McClellan) (emphasis added), quoted in Ostrowski v. Utility Workers Local 1-2 , 104 L.R.R.M.
2343, 2350 (S.D.N.Y.1980).
The right of free association is an inseparable aspect of freedom of speech.
NAACP v. Alabama, ex rel., Patterson , 357 U.S. 449, 460 , 78 S.Ct. 1163, 1170 , 2 L.Ed.2d 1488 (1958); Ostrowski v. Utility Workers Local 1-2 , 104 L.R.R.M.
at 2351.
As the Supreme Court stated in Griswold v. Connecticut , 381 U.S. 479, 483 , 85 S.Ct. 1678, 1681 , 14 L.Ed.2d 510 (1965): Association in that context is a form of expression of opinion Our analysis of section 101(a)(2) is guided by a recommendation made by Professor Cox shortly after the passage of the LMRDA: Cox, Internal Affairs of Labor Unions under the Labor Reform Act of 1959 , 58 Mich. L.Rev 819, 852 (1960), quoted in Wirtz v. Local 153, Glass Bottle Blowers Association , 389 U.S. 463, 468 n.6, 88 S.Ct. 643, 646 n.6, 19 L.Ed.2d 705 (1968); and Usery v. Local 639, International Brotherhood of Teamsters , 543 F.2d 369, 387 n.50 (D.C.Cir.1976), cert. denied , 429 U.S. 1123 , 97 S.Ct. 1159 , 51 L.Ed.2d 573 (1977).
One of the principal purposes of the Act was "to insure union democracy."
10 The interim report of the Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field, which preceded the LMRDA, in its legislative recommendations stated: democratically Interim Report of the Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field, S.Rep.No.1417, 85th Cong., 2d Sess.
452 (1958) (emphasis added) (hereinafter Select Committee Report).
Even without contribution limitations, challengers to the union leadership face substantial barriers, especially the electoral power of the union staff.
Union democracy [**197] can only occur if effective challenges can be made to the often-entrenched union leadership.
Any attempt that would operate to inhibit insurgents must be carefully scrutinized.
See Retail Clerks Local 648 v. Retail Clerks International Association , 299 F.Supp.
1012, 1020 (D.D.C.1969) ("Where a union policy and practice is promulgated in order, among other things, to place obstacles in the way of effective union democracy and appears to have this effect, the Court cannot give that policy any recognition as it offends both equity and the provisions of the LMRDA.")
In our view the outsider rule's blanket prohibition on outside contributions for "traditional campaign purposes," Union's Brief at 41, violates the rights of the candidate and his supporters to free speech and association as guaranteed by section 101(a)(2) and flies squarely in the face of the intent of the LMRDA to "insure union democracy."
We find support for this conclusion in the analogous context of contribution limitations in federal elections.
In Buckley v. Valeo , 424 U.S. 1 , 96 S.Ct. 612 , 46 L.Ed.2d 659 (1976), the Supreme Court ruled on the constitutionality of, inter alia , the expenditure and contribution limitations of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, 86 Stat. 3 , as amended.
The Court recognized the significant connection between money and political speech: 424 U.S. at 19 , 96 S.Ct. at 634 .
With respect to contributions the court stated: Id. at 21 , 96 S.Ct. at 635 .
Finding "no indication that the contribution limitations imposed by the Act would have any dramatic adverse effect on the funding of campaigns and political associations," id. , the Court upheld a limitation of $1,000 on the amount an individual could contribute to a particular candidate in an election.
In our view, the freedom of speech guarantee in the LMRDA serves to limit labor unions much as the First Amendment limits Congress in the restrictions that can validly be placed on campaign finance, but the Bill of Rights guarantees of the LMRDA are not limited to situations involving "state action."
Accepting Buckley as persuasive authority and finding meaningful direction from the legislative history of the LMRDA, we conclude that the outsider rule in many instances could unquestionably operate to prevent candidates, at least those facing the electoral power of entrenched union staffs, from "amassing the resources necessary for effective advocacy."
The rule permits no outside campaign contributions whatsoever.
A candidate for union office cannot receive or solicit contributions from friends, relatives, Union members not in good standing, retired Union members, or well-wishers.
The Union restrictions would not permit a candidate to receive a loan from his nonmember father, or a close friend, even if the loan were fully secured and carried a reasonable rate of interest.
The implementing regulations contain expansive definitions of "financial support" 11 and "indirect support."
12 They also state: [**198] 13 The candidate who solicits outside support or who is unable to rebut the presumption that he has accepted support that has been contributed faces serious penalties.
The Administrative Committee may "declare such candidate disqualified ."
Union Const.
art.
V, 27(d) (emphasis added).
In addition the Union Constitution contains a general "Discipline" provision (Article XII), which makes a violation of any provisions of the Constitution punishable by fine, suspension , or expulsion .
Even if we assume that the Union's only purpose in passing the outsider rule was to keep undesirable outside influence out of internal union affairs, we could not accept the broad limitations placed on a candidate's ability to receive outside campaign contributions that are not prohibited by the statute.
14 The Union no doubt has a legitimate interest in protecting its internal affairs from nefarious influences.
But that interest cannot justify a rule that prohibits a candidate, particularly an insurgent candidate, for union office from receiving any contributions or loans (except from institutional lenders) from nonmembers.
The Union suggests that Section 27 might be held valid under the proviso in 101(a)(2) which authorizes "reasonable" rules to protect unions as institutions.
One of the prime purposes of Congress in enacting the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act was to "insure union democracy."
15 The issue is thus framed as to whether an absolute prohibition on outside contributions is a "reasonable" protection of a union as an institution or a feature that would operate to deny "union democracy."
We cannot conceive of anything that would do more to inhibit union democracy than to prohibit insurgent candidates from receiving financial support from those outside sources that are not prohibited by the statute.
Such a rule in our opinion is unreasonable.
Friends, relatives, spouses, Steelworkers who are not in good standing in the Union, and well wishers in the public could not make any contribution, or even a well-secured loan at reasonable interest rates to support any such candidate.
We therefore conclude that the complete prohibition on outside financial support as declared in Section 27 is not on its face a "reasonable" rule governing the union [**199] member's responsibility to the union.
There is thus no reason to deviate from the general rule against upholding a statute in part where the remainder trespasses on free speech rights.
Thornhill v. Alabama , 310 U.S. 88, 97-98 , 60 S.Ct. 736, 741-742 , 84 L.Ed. 1093 (1940).
16 Our view that the free speech guarantee of the Bill of Rights in the LMRDA prohibits a complete prohibition on outside financial contributions to Union candidates gains support from the intent implicit in section 401(g) of the LMRDA, 29 U.S.C. 481(g) , and the legislative history of that provision.
Congress dealt in a comprehensive manner with the subject of financial support, including outside support, of candidates in Union elections in 29 U.S.C. 481(g) .
17 Following such consideration Congress limited its restrictions on financial support to prohibiting any candidate from using moneys collected as union "dues, assessment, or similar [levies]" and to providing that "no moneys of an employer shall be contributed or applied to promote" any candidate.
Prior to the enactment of the LMRDA in 1959 the Select Senate Committee ferreted out widespread corruption, dictatorship and racketeering in a number of large international unions.
The Committee found that the President of the Bakery and Confectionary Workers' International Union of America had "railroaded through changes in the union constitution which destroyed any vestigial pretenses of union democracy."
Select Committee Report, supra , at 129.
It reported that Dave Beck, General President of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters "shamefully enriched himself at [the] expense [of the union members] and that in the final instance he capitulated to the forces within the union who promoted the interests of racketeers and hoodlums."
Id. at 84 .
The Committee likewise found Teamster officials joining with others to take over illegal gambling operations with an "underworld combine," id. at 38-39 , and the top officers of the United Textile Workers of America avariciously misappropriating union funds, id. at 159 .
"Democracy [was] virtually nonexistent" in the International Union of Operating Engineers because the union was ruthlessly dominated through "violence, intimidation and other dictatorial practices."
Id. at 437 .
Practices in the Teamsters "advanced the cause of union dictatorship."
Id. at 444 .
The Committee cited other similar instances of widespread abuses in its 462-page Report.
18 With such highly objectionable conditions disclosed in the hearings of the Select Committee preceding enactment of the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959, it is likely that when Congress outlawed only union and employer campaign contributions, it intended to permit candidates for union office to obtain other outside financial support from legitimate sources.
Obtaining some outside support would be a practical necessity in many cases if members were to have any realistic opportunity to oust such corrupt and dictatorial incumbents as the Select Committee found in some of the unions it examined.
Walter Reuther and James Hoffa have recognized that the public has a right to be concerned about unions.
Reuther said: [**200] Reuther, Labor Leadership--A Public Service , in E. Bakke, C. Kerr & C. Anrod, Unions, Management and the Public 128 (2d ed. 1960).
And Hoffa testified before the Select Committee: Select Committee Report, supra , at 249.
While it might be argued from the above Legislative history that Congress may not have intended to completely preempt the field by its provision prohibiting only the use of union and employer money, it is highly unreasonable to expect that Congress intended to leave the door open for as absolute a prohibition as is embodied in Section 27 .
Such construction would leave union members practically at the mercy of every entrenched group of incumbents.
19 III.
CONCLUSION Having found that the critical sentence in Section 27 not only violates 101(a)(4), but also in prohibiting outside contributions for traditional campaign purposes unreasonably impinges on the right of free speech and association guaranteed by section 101(a)(2) , we must find that the outsider rule as set forth in the first sentence of Section 27 is invalid in its entirety.
20 The question remains whether any of the other provisions of Section 27 can survive.
We conclude that they cannot with one exception.
The remaining provisions of Section 27 , except one, all provide in some manner for the enforcement of the prohibitions on candidates receiving any outside financial support 21 as prohibited by [**201] the first sentence of Section 27 , and since we find such sentence to be invalid there is nothing left to enforce.
We thus rule that the Administrative Committee shall not retain any of the power or authority derived from Section 27 , with the one noted exception.
Section 27(f) provides: "if the International Executive Board deems it advisable" said Board may determine that the Committee "may have such other powers as the Board determines are necessary for the implementation of any other Section [ Section 27 excluded] of Article V." Union Const.
art.
V, 27(f) (emphasis added).
Since this case does not involve any other section of the Constitution, if the International Board considers it necessary to exercise this authority in connection with some other section of the Constitution, this opinion does not prohibit such action.
However, such other powers could not be used in any way to implement any of the prohibitions attempted by Section 27 .
We agree with the district court in its judgment that the outsider rule violates the right to sue provision of the LMRDA.
Our belief that the rule seriously impinges on the rights of free speech and association protected by section 101(a)(2) of the LMRDA leads us to agree with the district court that the entire rule must fall.
22 We therefore affirm the judgment of the district court enjoining the Union from implementing or enforcing Article V, Section 27 of the United Steelworkers of America Constitution in its entirety, with the aforesaid exception, and requiring the Union to publish notice in Steel Labor .
We also affirm the dismissal of the Secretary of Labor from the case for lack of jurisdiction.
Because of the nearness of the upcoming election the clerk of court is hereby ordered to issue the mandate forthwith.
Judgment accordingly .
