 ARNOLD , Circuit Judge.
In Brewer v. Williams , 430 U.S. 387 , 97 S.Ct. 1232 , 51 L.Ed.2d 424 (1977), the Supreme Court set aside the murder conviction of appellant Robert Anthony Williams because statements leading the police to the body of the victim had been obtained from Williams in violation of his Sixth and Fourteenth Amendment right to counsel.
Williams was tried again, and evidence of the discovery of the body and its condition was again admitted against him, this time on the theory, suggested in a footnote in the Supreme Court's opinion, that "the body would have been discovered in any event," 430 U.S. at 407 n. 12, 97 S.Ct. at 1244 n. 12, even in the absence of the statements unconstitutionally obtained from the defendant.
After the Supreme Court of Iowa affirmed the second conviction, State v. Williams , 285 N.W.2d 248 (Iowa 1979), defendant again sought federal habeas relief, which the District Court denied, Williams v. Nix , 528 F.Supp.
664 (S.D.Iowa 1981).
Both the Supreme Court of Iowa and the District Court adopted the "inevitable discovery" or "hypothetical independent source" exception to the exclusionary rule and upheld the second conviction on that basis, finding that the State had proved that the body would have been discovered in any event and that the police had not acted in bad faith in obtaining the excluded statements from defendant.
We hold that the record cannot support a finding that the State proved the police did not act in bad faith.
We therefore reverse, 528 F.Supp.
664 , and remand with instructions that the writ issue unless the State commences proceedings to try defendant again within 60 days of this Court's mandate.
1 I. On Christmas Eve 1968 the Powers family went to see a wrestling match at the YMCA in Des Moines.
Pamela Powers, their ten-year-old daughter, excused herself to go to the bathroom.
She did not come back.
A little while later, Robert Anthony Williams, a resident of the YMCA, was seen leaving the building with a bundle wrapped in a blanket.
Williams, a black man known as "Reverend," had escaped from a mental hospital in Missouri, where he had been a patient for three years, without the knowledge, presumably, of the Des Moines YMCA.
Two days later, Pamela Powers's body was found in a ditch east of Des Moines, as a result of statements made by Williams to the police under circumstances to be fully described later.
Williams was tried and convicted of deliberate, premeditated murder, and his conviction was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Iowa, State v. Williams , 182 N.W.2d 396 (Iowa 1970).
On habeas, however, the District Court, Williams v. Brewer , 375 F.Supp.
170 (S.D.Iowa 1974), set this first conviction aside, and this Court, 509 F.2d 227 (8th Cir.1974), and the Supreme Court, Brewer v. Williams , supra , affirmed.
The Supreme Court's reasons for invalidating the first conviction are of course the law of this case and are an important part of the background necessary for an understanding of the issues that now arise on this habeas challenge to Williams's second conviction.
The defendant, after leaving the YMCA in Des Moines on December 24, turned up in Rock Island, Illinois, two days later.
He telephoned Henry McKnight, a lawyer in Des Moines, and McKnight advised him to turn himself in to the police in Davenport, Iowa. Williams did surrender in Davenport, and McKnight went to the police station in Des Moines to speak with the authorities there.
"As a result of these conversations, it was agreed between McKnight and the Des Moines police officials that Detective Leaming [of the Des Moines police] and a fellow officer would drive to Davenport to pick up Williams, that they would bring him directly back to Des Moines, and that they would not question him during the trip."
Brewer v. Williams , supra , 430 U.S. at 391 , 97 S.Ct. at 1235 .
The Supreme Court then described what happened next, id. at 392-93 , 97 S.Ct. at 1236-1237 : 1 1 The fact of the matter, of course, was that Detective Leaming possessed no such knowledge The Court then held that the use of Williams's statements against him violated his Sixth and Fourteenth Amendment right to the assistance of counsel.
"Detective Leaming," it said, "deliberately and designedly set out to elicit information from Williams just as surely as--and perhaps more effectively than--if he had formally interrogated him [H]e purposely sought during Williams' isolation from his lawyers to obtain as much incriminating information as possible."
Id. 430 U.S. at 399 , 97 S.Ct. at 1240 .
The Court further held that Williams had not waived his right to counsel and that "so clear a violation of the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments as here occurred cannot be condoned."
Id. at 406 , 97 S.Ct. at 1243 .
The judgment of this Court granting habeas corpus was affirmed.
It was in this setting that Williams was tried for the second time.
This time the State did not offer his own statements in evidence against him, nor did it seek to show that the police had been led to the victim's body by the defendant.
The prosecution did, however, introduce evidence of the discovery of the body and various articles of the victim's clothing, including photographs and results of scientific tests.
An evidentiary hearing on defendant's motion to suppress this evidence was held by the District Court of Polk County, Iowa. 2 The evidence was incontestably discovered as a direct result of defendant's unconstitutionally obtained statements, so it was, absent some exception, clearly excludable as "fruit of the poisonous tree."
The State argued that the evidence would have been discovered in any event, and cited a footnote in the Supreme Court's opinion: 12 375 F.Supp.
170, 185 post 430 U.S.] at 430 97 S.Ct. at 1255 post, at 441 97 S.Ct. at 1261 Cf. Killough v. United States 119 U.S.App.D.C.
10 336 F.2d 929 430 U.S. at 406-07 n. 12, 97 S.Ct. at 1243-44 n. 12.
The state trial court denied the motion to suppress, and held admissible articles of clothing, and photographs of articles of clothing, found on the body, evidence concerning the condition of the body, and the results of medical, chemical, or pathological tests performed on the body.
The court found that the State had proved by a preponderance of the evidence that the body would have been discovered in any event, because a police search for the body would have continued, and the body would have been found in substantially the same condition in which it was found.
Freezing temperatures, the court found, would have preserved the body from decomposition even into April of 1969.
State v. Williams , No. CR 55805 (Dist.Ct.
Polk County, Iowa, May 31, 1977), found in Appendix filed in State v. Williams , No. 61228 Crim. (Sup.Ct.
Iowa, App. filed July 31, 1978), p. 137.
3 The case then went to trial, and the disputed evidence was introduced against defendant.
The defense conceded that Williams had left the YMCA with the little girl's body, but claimed that someone else had killed her and placed her body in Williams's room in the hope that suspicion would focus on him.
Williams, the theory went, then panicked, fled, and hid the body by the side of a road, until he came to his senses and gave himself up two days later.
The theory is not so far-fetched as it sounds.
The State contended that the murder was related to sexual abuse of the victim, and in fact acid phosphatase, a component of semen, was found in her body.
But no traces of spermatozoa, living or dead, were found either in the body or on Pamela's clothing.
One inference that could be drawn is that the victim was attacked by a sterile male.
Williams is concededly not sterile.
The State's witnesses suggested that sperm, initially present, had been destroyed by freezing, but this theory was arguably inconsistent with the hypothesis, earlier urged and accepted in connection with the motion to suppress, that extreme cold would preserve the body's condition, not change it.
The defense called experts who testified that freezing would not destroy sperm cells.
In addition, although pubic hairs said by an FBI expert to be "like" those of the defendant were found on the victim's clothing, so were other pubic hairs concededly belonging neither to Williams nor to the victim.
4 In any event, the jury found defendant guilty of first-degree murder, and he was sentenced to life in prison.
He has been in the Iowa State Penitentiary since his first conviction in 1969.
On appeal, the Supreme Court of Iowa again affirmed.
It held that there is in fact a "hypothetical independent source" exception to the exclusionary rule.
The exception was stated as follows: State v. Williams , 285 N.W.2d 248, 260 (Iowa 1979).
As to the first element, the Court stated: see 430 U.S. at 393, 399 97 S.Ct. at 1236-37, 1240 51 L.Ed.2d at 433, 437 Id. at 260-61 .
As to the second element, the trial court's finding that the body "would have been found in essentially the same condition it was in at the time of the actual discovery," id. at 262 , even in the absence of assistance from the defendant, was approved.
II.
Our analysis of this case makes it unnecessary to decide whether to recognize the inevitable-discovery or hypothetical-independent-source exception to the rule excluding evidence obtained in violation of the Sixth Amendment right to counsel.
We assume arguendo that there is such an exception and that the opinion of the Supreme Court of Iowa in this case correctly states the requirements for establishing it.
The exception as thus stated requires the State to prove two things: that the police did not act in bad faith, and that the evidence would have been discovered in any event.
We hold that the State has not met the first requirement.
It is therefore unnecessary to decide whether the state courts' finding that the body would have been discovered anyway is fairly supported by the record.
5 It is also unnecessary to decide whether the State must prove the two elements of the exception by clear and convincing evidence, as defendant argues, or by a preponderance of the evidence, as the state courts held.
The state trial court, in denying the motion to suppress, made no finding one way or the other on the question of bad faith. 6 Its opinion does not even mention the issue and seems to proceed on the assumption--contrary to the rule of law later laid down by the Supreme Court of Iowa--that the State needed to show only that the body would have been discovered in any event.
The Iowa Supreme Court did expressly address the issue, in words that we have quoted, and a finding by an appellate court of a state is entitled to the same presumption of correctness that attaches to trial-court findings under 28 U.S.C. 2254(d).
Sumner v. Mata , 449 U.S. 539, 545-47 , 101 S.Ct. 764, 768-769 , 66 L.Ed.2d 722 (1981).
We conclude, however, that the state Supreme Court's finding that the police did not act in bad faith is not entitled to the shield of 2254(d), for two reasons.
First, the Iowa court's discussion of bad faith is not really a finding of fact at all.
It is more like a legal conclusion that police conduct later found constitutionally blameless by a large minority of this Court and the Supreme Court cannot amount to bad faith.
To put it another way, if four Supreme Court Justices believe something, it must be reasonable.
7 And if the bad-faith passage in the Supreme Court of Iowa's opinion is regarded as a finding of fact that Detective Leaming, though he later turned out to be wrong, honestly believed that his conversation with Williams was not a violation of the Sixth Amendment, the finding must still be rejected.
It is utterly without record support, for reasons that we shall explain later in some detail.
The finding (if that is what it is) is thus "not fairly supported by the record," and paragraph (8) of 2254(d) permits us to examine the bad-faith question unhampered by any presumption.
8 If the state court's opinion is read as holding as a matter of law that Detective Leaming did not act in bad faith because one judge of this Court (or three, if the votes to grant rehearing en banc are counted) and four members of the Supreme Court later voted not to exclude the fruits of his effort, then we respectfully disagree with the Supreme Court of Iowa. An opinion of the Supreme Court is no less declaratory of the law of the land when a bare majority joins it.
The majority rules, in courts as in legislatures, and one vote is a decisive margin.
Law is an art, not a science, and it often happens, especially in cases complex and important enough to attract the Supreme Court's attention, that questions of great moment do not receive unanimous answers.
We note that the Supreme Court's opinion refers to Detective Leaming's conduct as " so clear a violation of the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments [that it] cannot be condoned."
430 U.S. at 406 , 97 S.Ct. at 1243 (emphasis supplied).
There is a sense, we suppose, in which a case decided by one vote is anything but "clear," but we judges of an inferior court are not permitted such speculation.
It is true that a proposition of law subscribed to by four Supreme Court Justices (or perhaps even one) must in some fashion be objectively "reasonable," but that does not meet the issue presented here.
The question before us is not whether the Supreme Court's opinion in Brewer v. Williams is fairly debatable as a legal matter.
Obviously it is.
The question is rather what was in Detective Leaming's mind during that car ride back to Des Moines.
If he honestly thought he was not violating Williams's rights, then the deterrent purpose of the exclusionary rule would arguably not be impaired by allowing proof of facts that would have come to light in any event.
But if he had no such honest belief, and if the courts later hold his conduct unlawful, it matters not how close the division was among the judges.
The relevant question- bad faith--is subjective.
Possibly if Detective Leaming testified that he thought he was behaving constitutionally, and later the courts unanimously decided otherwise, based on clear preexisting law, the very clarity of the courts' action might be thought to cast a doubt on the truthfulness of the testimony.
Could a proposition so lacking in legal support actually have been believed by an officer of the law?, one might ask.
But that is not this case. Here, the question is the reverse: Does the closeness of a later judicial decision necessarily establish that conduct approved by a minority of judges is not in bad faith?
We think not.
If Leaming conversed with Williams in deliberate violation of the Sixth Amendment, the evidence must be excluded.
We turn, then, to the factual question of Leaming's state of mind at the time.
On this question the State concededly has the burden of proof.
If the evidence is in equipoise, or if there is no evidence either way, the State must lose.
Yet there is not a line of evidence in the record before us that Detective Leaming thought he was within the Constitution.
No court, state or federal, has ever so found, and it is not hard to see why, given the state of this record.
We do not even have a self-serving statement from Leaming himself that he was unaware of any constitutional violation.
9 The opinions of the Supreme Court and of the various concurring Justices in Brewer v. Williams furnish some fairly strong clues as to how that Court might resolve the bad-faith issue (though footnote 12 of the Court's opinion must mean that that issue, like other aspects of the inevitable-discovery doctrine, was to be open for exploration at the second trial and subsequent post-conviction proceedings).
Not only does the Court refer to the Sixth Amendment violation as "clear," 430 U.S. at 406 , 97 S.Ct. at 1243 .
It also describes Leaming's course of conduct as undertaken "deliberately," "designedly," and "purposely," id. at 399 , 97 S.Ct. at 1239 , and labels the situation before it as "constitutionally indistinguishable from" a previous Supreme Court decision, Massiah v. United States , 377 U.S. 201 , 84 S.Ct. 1199 , 12 L.Ed.2d 246 (1964).
The Court did not think it was breaking new ground, or holding Detective Leaming to a standard of conduct not theretofore clearly established.
Justice Marshall, concurring, stated that "there can be no doubt that Detective Leaming consciously and knowingly set out to violate Williams' Sixth Amendment right to counsel and his Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination, as Leaming himself understood those rights."
Id. 430 U.S. at 407 , 97 S.Ct. at 1244 .
Justice Powell, concurring, remarked that "the entire setting was conducive to the psychological coercion that was successfully exploited."
Id. at 412 , 97 S.Ct. at 1246 .
He took the position, at least as to Fourth Amendment violations, that "a distinction should be made between flagrant violations by the police, on the one hand, and technical, trivial, or inadvertent violations, on the other," but emphasized that "[h]ere, we have a Sixth Amendment case and also one in which the police deliberately took advantage of an inherently coercive setting in the absence of counsel, contrary to their express agreement.
Police are to be commended for diligent efforts to ascertain the truth, but the police conduct in this case plainly violated [Williams's] constitutional rights."
Id. at 413-14 n. 2, 97 S.Ct. at 1246-47 n. 2.
And Justice Stevens, concurring, observed that "the State cannot be permitted to dishonor its promise to this lawyer."
Id. at 415 , 97 S.Ct. at 1247 (footnote omitted).
11 Our study of the record confirms these hints in the opinions of the Justices in the majority.
Not only has the State not borne its burden of proof; what evidence there is on the subject strongly points in the direction of bad faith.
In the first place, every court, state or federal, that has made a finding on the issue has found that the police broke an express promise to Henry McKnight, Williams's Des Moines lawyer.
The trial court so found before the first trial, see State v. Williams , supra , 182 N.W.2d at 402 ; id. at 406 (Stuart, J., dissenting); the District Court so found in the first habeas proceeding, Williams v. Brewer , supra , 375 F.Supp.
at 173 ; and by the time the case reached this Court for the first time the breach of the agreement was no longer in dispute, Williams v. Brewer , supra , 509 F.2d at 229 ; id. at 236 n. 1 (Webster, J., dissenting).
The word of the police, like that of everyone else, should be good.
The broken promise might be justified if Detective Leaming was hoping (after two days of exposure to freezing temperatures) to find the victim alive.
But Leaming did not so testify, and, though it could not be known that Pamela was dead, any hope of finding her alive must have been forlorn.
In any event, McKnight had told Leaming that after he and Williams had had a chance to confer in Des Moines the police would be told where to find the body.
Leaming did not wish to wait.
Instead, as we said on the prior appeal, "the specific purpose of [Leaming's] conversation with [Williams] was to obtain statements and information from [him] concerning the missing girl before [he] could consult with Mr.
McKnight."
509 F.2d at 231 .
Leaming wanted, it seems, not merely to find Pamela or her body, but also to obtain statements from Williams that might be used against him.
See 430 U.S. at 408 , 97 S.Ct. at 1244 (Marshall, J., concurring); 375 F.Supp.
at 179 .
At the oral argument the State did not question that Leaming broke his word, or that he deliberately and designedly set out to elicit information from Williams.
It suggested, though, that deliberately seeking information is different from deliberately violating constitutional rights.
Doubtless this is true as a matter of abstract logic.
But several aspects of this record are inconsistent with such a reconstruction of Leaming's motivation.
The promise not to question Williams was not the only promise broken.
Leaming also promised McKnight to bring Williams straight to Des Moines, see 430 U.S. at 391 , 97 S.Ct. at 1235 , and this promise also was not kept.
Leaming seems to have decided to break his promise not to question Williams almost immediately after the promise was made.
Upon arriving in Davenport to pick Williams up, and before beginning the return trip.
Leaming told his prisoner that "'we'll be visiting between here and Des Moines.'"
Ibid.
Thereafter, Williams's Davenport counsel, a lawyer named Kelly, reminded Leaming of his commitment, but "Leaming expressed some reservations."
Id. at 392 , 97 S.Ct. at 1236 .
Kelly asked to be allowed to ride back in the car with his client, but this request was refused.
Then, in the car, Leaming told Williams that he knew the body was in the area of Mitchellville, although "[t]he fact of the matter, of course, was that Detective Leaming possessed no such knowledge."
Id. at 393 n. 1, 97 S.Ct. at 1236 n. 1.
We do not wonder that the Supreme Court of Iowa described these tactics as "both subtly coercive and purposeful," 285 N.W.2d at 260 , and that the trial court, in its opinion on the motion to suppress made before the second trial, referred to the "U.S. Supreme Court's findings that [the Christian burial] speech was a sly and clever psychological ploy, designed for mental coercion of the defendant " App. 136-37 (emphasis supplied).
The State seems not to have asked the trial court to make a finding on the issue of bad faith, and, as we have noted, it did not do so.
This quotation from its opinion may indicate what that finding would have been.
A design to obtain incriminating evidence by mental coercion is a design to violate the Constitution.
Nor is this a case where the police, having successfully devised a means of obtaining evidence, then forthrightly admitted the facts and defended the legality of their own conduct.
On the contrary, Leaming disputed the claim that he had agreed with McKnight not to question Williams on the way back to Des Moines.
He also contradicted Kelly's testimony that he had been refused permission to ride back with Williams, and that he had told Leaming that Williams was not to talk with him until they reached Des Moines.
The District Court in the first habeas case explicitly resolved these three conflicts in testimony against Leaming, 375 F.Supp.
at 176, 177 , and the state trial court found as a fact, contrary to Leaming's testimony, that the agreement with McKnight had been made, and expressed "explicit doubts as to the testimony of Detective Leaming."
Id. at 176 (footnote omitted).
These are not the actions of a man who believed he was doing the right thing, only to be confounded later on by a close vote on a question of law.
We hold that the State did not satisfy its burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the police did not act in bad faith in obtaining Williams's statements that led them to the body.
Under the inevitable-discovery rule as laid down by the Supreme Court of Iowa, which we accept arguendo for the purposes of this appeal, the motion to suppress should have been granted.
Williams's conviction was obtained in violation of the Sixth Amendment, and it must be set aside.
III.
It will inevitably be remarked that our opinion focusses more on the conduct of the police than of the alleged murderer.
If Williams is indeed guilty, and if he goes free as a result of our holding, then complete justice may not have been done, even though Williams has served 14 years in prison.
A system of law that not only makes certain conduct criminal, but also lays down rules for the conduct of the authorities, often becomes complex in its application to individual cases, and will from time to time produce imperfect results, especially if one's attention is confined to the particular case at bar.
Some criminals do go free because of the necessity of keeping government and its servants in their place.
That is one of the costs of having and enforcing a Bill of Rights.
This country is built on the assumption that the cost is worth paying, and that in the long run we are all both freer and safer if the Constitution is strictly enforced.
The judgment of the District Court is reversed.
This cause is remanded to it with directions to issue the writ of habeas corpus releasing Williams from custody, unless the State within 60 days of the issuance of our mandate commences proceedings to try Williams again.
Our action is also without prejudice to the right of the appropriate authorities of the State of Iowa to commence a civil-commitment proceeding against appellant.
It is so ordered.
