 ON REMAND FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES Opinion PER CURIAM.
PER CURIAM: In Schor v. Commodity Futures Trading Commission , 740 F.2d 1262 (D.C.Cir.1984), we concluded that the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA or Act) 1 did not empower the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC or Commission) to adjudicate traditional contract claims governed by state law.
In particular, Schor entailed two matters: first, a customer's charges that a broker had violated the CEA and CFTC regulations thereunder; and second, a counterclaim by the broker for the debit balance in the customer's account.
With one exception, we affirmed the CFTC's dismissal of the customer's charges.
We held, however, that Congress had not authorized the Commission to entertain claims or counterclaims other than those alleging violations of the Act or CFTC regulations.
2 Accordingly, we instructed the Commission to dismiss the broker's common law breach of contract counterclaim for want of subject matter jurisdiction.
On July 2, 1985, the Supreme Court vacated our judgment in Schor and "remanded for further consideration in light of Thomas v. Union Carbide Agricultural Products Co. , 473 U.S. , 105 S.Ct. 3325 , 87 L.Ed.2d 409 (1985)."
Upon further consideration, we reinstate our judgment in Schor .
Thomas v. Union Carbide Agricultural Products Co. , 473 U.S. , 105 S.Ct. 3325 , 87 L.Ed.2d 409 (1985), involved a pesticide registration scheme precisely and completely ordered by Congress in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), 7 U.S.C. 136-136y (1982 & Supp.
I 1983).
As a means of resolving certain disputes among registrants regarding compensation for which FIFRA provided, Congress crafted a binding arbitration arrangement with limited judicial review.
473 U.S. , 105 S.Ct. at 3329 .
The Supreme Court held that Article III of the Constitution did not prohibit Congress from employing a binding arbitration mechanism in the federal regulatory regime.
Distinguishing Northern Pipeline Construction Co. v. Marathon Pipe Line Co. , 458 U.S. 50 , 102 S.Ct. 2858 , 73 L.Ed.2d 598 (1982), the Court in Thomas heavily emphasized that the FIFRA case arose entirely within the confines of federal law, and that a federal rule of decision, exclusively, was at stake.
3 [**157] We note in addition that in Thomas , there was no doubt as to the legislature's will.
Congress had furnished a detailed design.
See 473 U.S. at , 105 S.Ct. at 3329 .
The Court's task was not to divine what FIFRA meant, for the statute, on the matter at issue, appeared entirely clear.
4 Thomas thus presented, cleanly, a question of the compatibility of the scheme Congress crafted with Article III constraints on the lawmaker.
5 Because the dispute in Thomas arose "in the context of a federal regulatory scheme that virtually occupie[d] the field," 6 we are unable to find in that case reasoning that would lead us to a different result in Schor .
The broker's common law counterclaim in Schor , in marked contrast to the compensation controversy in Thomas , entailed no claim "created by the administrative state"; 7 indeed, the plea for the debit balance in the customer's account did not stem from any law prescribed by Congress.
Rather, "state law created the [contract] right and provided the rule of decision as between [broker and customer], irrespective of the existence of the [CEA]."
8 In sum, the Schor counterclaim presented, as the Thomas dispute did not, "a traditional contract action," 9 a garden variety matter of state common law.
Moreover, the CFTC's asserted authority to adjudicate a common law counterclaim derived from a Commission procedural rule, not from any explicit instruction stated by Congress in the text of the CEA.
As we pointed out in our Schor opinion, the Commission urged jurisdiction apparently "unique in the federal system."
10 However swift and economical Commission adjudication might be, neither the CFTC nor this court was "aware of any other agenc[y] that expressly render[s] decisions and issue[s] awards on common law claims."
11 If Congress had meant to confer upon the CFTC such unprecedented authority, some clear words to that effect, it seemed to us, would have been spoken in legislative chambers, and written into the statute as a direction for the Commission and the courts.
12 We recognized in Schor that the Article III inquiry made in Northern Pipeline involved examination of decisions that "do not admit of easy synthesis."
13 Because [**158] Congress had not addressed the matter of the CFTC's authority over state common law claims specifically, if at all, we construed the CEA in a manner that avoided the constitutional issue.
14 We understand the CFTC's argument that comprehensive Commission jurisdiction would be highly efficient.
We remain persuaded, however, that the matter is one properly placed--forthrightly, fully, and in the first instance--before Congress.
Nothing in the Thomas decision alters our view in that regard.
15 We therefore reinstate our judgment.
It is so ordered .
