 NORRIS , Circuit Judge: Bethel School District appeals a judgment for declaratory and injunctive relief, damages, and $12,750 costs and attorney's fees in this civil rights action brought under 42 U.S.C. 1983 by a student who claimed that the district had abridged his freedom of speech as protected by the First and Fourteenth Amendments .
We affirm.
I On April 26, 1983, appellee Matthew N. Fraser, then a seventeen-year-old senior at Bethel High School in Tacoma, Washington, nominated a friend and classmate for school office at a student-run assembly called for that purpose.
The following is the entire text of Fraser's nominating speech: The day after he delivered the speech, Fraser was asked to report to the assistant principal's office and to produce a copy of the text of his speech.
At the meeting, Fraser was given notice that he was being charged with violating the school's disruptive conduct rule.
1 After he was given an opportunity to explain his conduct, he was suspended for three days.
Fraser, who was a member of the Honor Society and the debate team and the recipient of the "Top Speaker" award in statewide debate championships for two consecutive years, was also informed that his name would be removed from a previously approved list of candidates on the ballot for graduation speaker.
Even though his name was stricken from the ballot, he was elected a graduation speaker by his classmates on a write-in vote, receiving the second highest number of votes cast.
The District, nevertheless, continued to deny him permission to speak.
Fraser initiated a grievance of the disciplinary action by making a submission to the Superintendent of the Bethel School District.
After the grievance was denied, Fraser, joined by his father as guardian ad litem, filed this civil rights action.
After an evidentiary hearing at which the school principal, two assistant principals, several teachers and Fraser all testified, Judge Tanner issued a declaratory judgment that the School District violated Fraser's rights under the First and Fourteenth Amendments under the United States Constitution and the Civil Rights Act by subjecting him to a three-day suspension and removing his name from the list of candidates for the graduation speaker, and that the punishment imposed upon Fraser was null and void.
Judge Tanner also enjoined the District from refusing to allow Fraser to participate in Bethel High School's commencement exercises as a graduation speaker and awarded Fraser $278 as damages and $12,750 as costs and attorney's fees.
The District invokes our jurisdiction to hear its appeal under 28 U.S.C. 1291 .
Before addressing the District's arguments on appeal, we will review a few basic principles of First Amendment jurisprudence.
It is well established that high school students do not "shed their constitutional rights to freedom of speech or expression at the schoolhouse gate."
Tinker v. Des Moines Independent School District , 393 U.S. 503, 506 , 89 S.Ct. 733, 736 , 21 L.Ed.2d 731 (1969).
It is also well established, however, that a student's First Amendment rights are not absolute; the limits of a student's right to express himself must be defined in light of the special characteristics of the school environment.
Id. at 506 , 89 S.Ct. at 736 .
As our Court said in Nicholson v. Board of Education , 682 F.2d 858 (9th Cir.1982), "In the high school setting, school officials and teachers must be accorded wide latitude over decisions affecting the manner in which they educate students."
Id. at 863 .
The discretion of school authorities in managing school affairs is necessarily limited, however, by "the imperatives of the First Amendment. "
Board of Education, Island Trees Union Free School District v. Pico , 457 U.S. 853, 864 , 102 S.Ct. 2799, 2807 , 73 L.Ed.2d 435 (1982) (plurality opinion).
Under Tinker and its progeny, "school officials must bear the burden of demonstrating 'a reasonable basis for interference with student speech, and courts will not rest content with officials' bare allegation that such a basis existed.'"
Trachtman v. Anker , 563 F.2d 512, 517 (2d Cir.1977) quoting Eisner v. Stamford Board of Education , 440 F.2d 803, 810 (2d Cir.1971).
See also , Scoville v. Board of Education , 425 F.2d 10, 13 (7th Cir.), cert. denied , 400 U.S. 826 , 91 S.Ct. 51 , 27 L.Ed.2d 55 (1970).
Under our Constitution, it is the role of the judicial branch of government to resolve First Amendment controversies between students and public school officials such as the one between Matthew Fraser and the Bethel School District.
A celebrated case in point is West Virginia v. Barnette , 319 U.S. 624 , 63 S.Ct. 1178 , 87 L.Ed. 1628 (1943), where the Supreme Court was called upon to decide whether a public school student could be compelled to salute the flag.
Ruling in favor of the student, the Court, speaking through Justice Jackson, said, Fourteenth Amendment Id. at 637 , 63 S.Ct. at 1185 .
We must address three basic arguments made by the District in support of its claim on appeal that the disciplinary action did not abridge Fraser's constitutional rights: (1) The District may discipline Fraser because the nominating speech had a disruptive effect on the educational process of the school; (2) the District's interest in maintaining a level of civility at the school justified its disciplinary action against Fraser for using language which school officials consider to be indecent; and (3) the District may discipline Fraser for using language considered to be objectionable because the speech was made at a school-sponsored function and was an extension of the school program.
We will consider each argument in turn.
2 II We agree with the District that the First Amendment does not prohibit school officials from disciplining a student who materially disrupts the educational process.
As the Supreme Court said in Tinker , student speech or conduct is "not immunized by the constitutional guarantee of freedom of speech" if it "materially disrupts class work or involves substantial disorder or invasion of the rights of others."
393 U.S. at 513 , 89 S.Ct. at 740 .
Tinker involved three high school students who were suspended for continuing to wear black armbands as a symbolic protest against the war in Vietnam after being asked to remove them.
The Supreme Court held that the suspension violated the students' First Amendment rights because the school district failed to establish that the black armbands had a disruptive effect on the operations of the school or that the school officials had reason to anticipate that the armbands would cause a disruption.
The Tinker Court ruled that the students' constitutional right to protest the war by wearing black armbands could not be infringed because there were no "facts which might reasonably have led school authorities to forecast substantial disruption or material interference with school activities, and no disturbances or disorders on the school premises in fact occurred."
Id. at 514 , 89 S.Ct. at 740 .
Just as in Tinker , the Bethel School District has failed to carry its burden of demonstrating that Fraser's use of sexual innuendo in the nominating speech substantially disrupted or materially interfered in any way with the educational process.
In support of its contention that the speech was disruptive, the District cites the testimony of Gary McCutcheon, a school counselor who testified that some students at the assembly reacted to Fraser's speech with "hooting and yelling."
Appellant's Brief at 3.
Mr. McCutcheon testified as follows: That testimony is the only evidence that the District cites in its brief in support of its contention that Fraser's speech disrupted the assembly.
The record also contains the testimony of Irene Hicks, a teacher who also heard the speech.
She described the student reaction as follows: .
.
.
.
.
Thus, what the evidence demonstrates is that Fraser's speech evoked a lively and noisy response from the students, including applause, and that a few of the students reacted with sexually suggestive movements.
The administration had no difficulty in maintaining order during the assembly and Fraser's speech did not delay the assembly program.
Fraser was the second to last speaker, followed by his candidate, Jeff Kuhlman, who then made the final speech of the afternoon without incident.
The assembly, which took place after the last school class of the day, was dismissed on schedule.
The only other evidence cited by the District to support its claim that the speech was disruptive of the educational process is the testimony of Debbie Carmandi, a home economics teacher, who said that during class the next day the students expressed so much interest in Fraser's speech that she devoted approximately ten minutes to a discussion of it.
Judge Tanner summarized her testimony as follows: "On the day after the speech was delivered, a teacher found that students in her class were more interested in discussing the speech than attending to class work.
The teacher then invited a class discussion of the speech."
Finding of Fact No. 5.
Given the evidence before us, we fail to see how we can distinguish this case from Tinker on the issue of disruption.
Just as the record in Tinker failed to yield evidence that the wearing of black armbands resulted in a material interference with school activity, the record now before us yields no evidence that Fraser's use of a sexual innuendo in his speech materially interfered with activities at Bethel High School.
While the students' reaction to Fraser's speech may fairly be characterized as boisterous, it was hardly disruptive of the educational process.
In the words of Mr. McCutcheon, the school counselor whose testimony the District relies upon, the reaction of the student body "was not atypical to a high school auditorium assembly."
In our view, a noisy response to the speech and sexually suggestive movements by three students in a crowd of 600 fail to rise to the level of a material interference with the educational process that justifies impinging upon Fraser's First Amendment right to express himself freely.
We find it significant that although four teachers delivered written statements to an assistant principal commenting on Fraser's speech, none of them suggested that the speech disrupted the assembly or otherwise interfered with school activities.
3 See Finding of Fact No. 8.
Nor can a finding of material disruption be based upon the evidence that the speech proved to be a lively topic of conversation among students the following day.
We recognize that the principal, assistant principals and some teachers thought that Fraser's speech was inappropriate for a school assembly because of what they considered to be sexually explicit language.
4 In response to questioning by Judge Tanner, both the principal, David Rich, and the assistant principal, Lee Morrison, testified that in their view the word "inappropriate" was synonymous with the word "disruptive" in the school context.
The mere fact that some members of the school community considered Fraser's speech to be inappropriate does not necessarily mean it was disruptive of the educational process.
The First Amendment standard Tinker requires us to apply is material disruption, not inappropriateness.
As the Supreme Court said in Tinker , Terminiello v. Chicago 337 U.S. 1 69 S.Ct. 894 93 L.Ed. 1131 393 U.S. at 508 , 89 S.Ct. at 737 .
Thus, we conclude that the District has failed to demonstrate that the speech had a materially disruptive effect on the educational process.
III The District's second major argument is that regardless whether the speech was disruptive, it is not prohibited by the First Amendment from disciplining Fraser for using sexual references which, in the opinion of school officials, made the speech "indecent."
5 The thrust of this argument is that school officials have a legitimate interest in protecting teachers and students from speech deemed to be offensive and that this interest outweighs Fraser's interest in using sexual innuendo in his speech.
In making this argument, the District relies heavily on Federal Communications Commission v. Pacifica Foundation , 438 U.S. 726 , 98 S.Ct. 3026 , 57 L.Ed.2d 1073 (1978), and the concurring opinion of Judge Newman in Thomas v. Board of Education , 607 F.2d 1043 (2d Cir.1979).
In Pacifica , the Supreme Court held that the First Amendment did not prohibit the Federal Communications Commission from regulating a radio broadcast that the Commission and a majority of the Court deemed to be indecent, although not obscene.
Specifically, the Court upheld a Commission order declaring that a radio broadcast of George Carlin's "Filthy Words" monologue was indecent within the meaning of 18 U.S.C. 1464 .
6 In upholding the Commission's order against constitutional attack, the Supreme Court emphasized that of all forms of communication, broadcasting has received the most limited First Amendment protection for two principal reasons: (1) broadcasting intrudes directly on the privacy of an unwilling listener while he or she is at home, 438 U.S. at 748 , 98 S.Ct. at 3039 ; and (2) broadcasting is uniquely available to unsupervised children, even those too young to read.
Id. at 749 , 98 S.Ct. at 3040 .
In Thomas , 607 F.2d 1043 (2d Cir.1979), the Second Circuit held that the First Amendment rendered school officials powerless to discipline students for publishing an off -campus newspaper specializing in sexual satire.
Because the students' on -campus activity in publishing and distributing the newspaper was de minimis, the majority in Thomas did not reach the question whether the students could have been punished for distributing the newspaper on campus.
Id. at 1050 .
That question, however, was discussed by Judge Newman in his separate concurring opinion.
Id. at 1053 .
The District argues that we should adopt the view expressed by Judge Newman that the doctrine of Pacifica should be extended to the high school context.
7 Relying upon Pacifica , Judge Newman reasoned, "If the F.C.C.
can act to keep indecent language off the afternoon airwaves, a school can act to keep indecent language from circulating on high school grounds."
Id. at 1057 .
Thus, we are asked by the District to expand the doctrine of Pacifica beyond the context of broadcasting to the high school environment.
We believe the relevant inquiry is whether the Supreme Court's rationales for sanctioning government regulation of "indecent" speech in broadcasting are applicable to a high school assembly convened for the express purpose of providing a forum for students to make campaign speeches.
The Supreme Court's first rationale in Pacifica --that broadcasting can be very intrusive upon the privacy of the home--is plainly inapplicable to a high school assembly.
High school students voluntarily attending an assembly to hear student campaign speeches surely do not expect the same measure of privacy and protection from unwelcome language and ideas that they obviously do at home.
A high school assembly is a very public place.
In contrast, the Constitution treats homes as special sanctuaries for privacy.
As the Supreme Court said in Cohen v. California , 403 U.S. 15 , 91 S.Ct. 1780 , 29 L.Ed.2d 284 (1971): 8 Id. at 21 , 91 S.Ct. at 1786 (citations omitted).
The Supreme Court's second rationale in Pacifica --that broadcasting routinely reaches impressionable young children--is also inapplicable to a high school assembly.
Fraser was not talking to children too young to read; he was speaking to young adults, many of whom as high school seniors on the eve of graduation would have already reached voting age.
Realistically, high school students are beyond the point of being sheltered from the potpourri of sights and sounds we encounter at every turn in our daily lives.
Although we may be offended by some of what we see and hear, that is a price we must pay for the privilege of living in a free and open pluralistic society.
Thus, we hold that the rationales of Pacifica have no applicability to the high school environment, especially to an assembly convened for student political speech-making.
It is one thing to apply a standard of "indecency" to restrict the First Amendment protection of broadcasting out of concern for the privacy of the home and impressionable young children; it would be quite another to give school officials discretion to apply the amorphous standard of "indecency" to restrict the First Amendment freedoms of high school seniors' making campaign speeches for student office.
We fear that if school officials had the unbridled discretion to apply a standard as subjective and elusive as "indecency" in controlling the speech of high school students, it would increase the risk of cementing white, middle-class standards for determining what is acceptable and proper speech and behavior in our public schools.
Language that may be considered "indecent" in one segment of our heterogeneous society may be common, household usage in another.
Freedom to be different in our individual manner of expression is a core constitutional value; the First Amendment reflects the considered judgment of our Founding Fathers that government officials, including public school administrators and, for that matter, judges, should not be permitted to use their power to control individual self-expression.
Matthew Fraser testified that he knowingly used "sexual innuendo" in his speech nominating Jeff Kuhlman for school office.
As Judge Tanner found, Fraser did so because he thought it would be effective to establish a rapport with his fellow students, and perhaps to amuse them.
Whether he succeeded or whether he went over the line of good taste and became offensive is for his fellow students to judge when they cast their ballots in the school elections.
9 Thus, we decline to expand the doctrine of Pacifica to give public school officials power to regulate the speech of high school students they consider to be indecent.
10 Accordingly, we hold that the First Amendment prohibited the District from punishing Fraser for making a speech that school officials considered to be "indecent."
IV In addition to relying on Pacifica and Judge Newman's concurring opinion in Thomas , the District cites a number of other cases as authority for the general proposition that school officials may control the language used to convey ideas at school-sponsored events.
11 In essence, the District argues that because school officials can control the agenda and subject matter of school-sponsored assemblies, they can regulate the speech of students who participate in the assemblies and can punish students for language that they find objectionable.
That school officials have broad discretion to control the content of the school curriculum cannot be disputed.
See Nicholson v. Board of Education , 682 F.2d 858, 863 (9th Cir.1982).
Although Fraser delivered his speech to a school-sponsored assembly, his speech was clearly not part of the school curriculum.
The assembly, which was run by a student, was a voluntary activity in which students were invited to give their own speeches, not speeches prescribed by school authorities as part of the educational program.
Attendance, moreover, was not compulsory; students were free to attend a study hall instead.
Because this case does not involve the compulsory environment of the classroom, we find the District's reliance on Board of Education, Island Trees Union Free School District v. Pico , 457 U.S. 853 , 102 S.Ct. 2799 , 73 L.Ed.2d 435 (1982), to be puzzling.
In Island Trees , the Supreme Court held that a local school board's discretion to determine the content of its school libraries is limited by the imperatives of the First Amendment .
The Court remanded the case for trial to determine the reasons behind the school board's removal of certain books from the library because "local school boards may not remove books from school library shelves simply because they dislike the ideas contained in those books and seek by their removal to 'prescribe what shall be orthodox in politics, nationalism, religion, or other matters of opinion.'"
Id. at 872 , 102 S.Ct. at 2810 (quoting West Virginia Board of Education v. Barnette , 319 U.S. at 642 , 63 S.Ct. at 1187 ).
The Bethel School District's reliance on Island Trees is clearly misplaced because, as Justice Brennan said speaking for the plurality, school boards may not "extend their claim of absolute discretion beyond the compulsory environment of the classroom, into the school library and the regime of voluntary inquiry that there holds sway."
Id. 457 U.S. at 869 , 102 S.Ct. at 2809 .
A voluntary student election assembly is even further removed from the "compulsory environment of the classroom" than a library.
Similarly, in Bicknell v. Vergennes Union High School Board of Directors , 638 F.2d 438 (2d Cir.1980), also relied upon by the school district, the court recognized that the First Amendment imposes fewer restrictions on a school board's discretion to choose materials for the school program than to regulate a student's right of expression.
Id. at 441 n. 3.
The case before us is also distinguishable from Nicholson , where we held that students in a journalism class that publishes a school newspaper do not have a constitutional right to be free from prepublication review by the school principal.
682 F.2d at 863 .
Nicholson did involve the compulsory environment of the classroom.
The publication of the newspaper was part of a journalism class in which students were being taught how to be journalists.
As we explained, "[T]he school possessed a substantial educational interest in teaching young, student writers journalistic skills which stressed accuracy and fairness."
Id. Indeed, in Nicholson we explicitly pointed out that school officials had much greater latitude in reviewing a student publication that was part of the curriculum than in the case of a student newspaper that was an extra-curricular activity.
In the latter case, we said that such "outright censoring or prohibition would require a strong showing on the part of school administrators that publication of that forbidden materials would 'materially and substantially interfere with the requirements of appropriate discipline in the operation of the school.'"
Id. at 863 n. 3 (quoting Tinker , 393 U.S. at 509 , 89 S.Ct. at 738 ).
The voluntary, student-run assembly which Fraser addressed was clearly an extra-curricular activity, not part of the school curriculum.
The assembly was in the best sense a student activity; the candidates and their nominators were on their own, free to exercise their individual judgments about the content of their speeches.
In exercising his First Amendment rights at the assembly, Fraser was as free to express himself as if the students had organized a campaign rally in the cafeteria or outside on the school steps.
See Tinker , 393 U.S. at 512-13 , 89 S.Ct. at 739-40 ("When [a student] is in the cafeteria, or on the playing field, or on the campus during the authorized hours, he may express his opinions, even on controversial subjects like conflict in Vietnam ").
The other cases cited by the District are also inapposite.
In Sevfried v. Walton , 668 F.2d 214 (3d Cir.1981), for example, the Third Circuit explicitly distinguished the superintendent's permissible decision to cancel a drama class' production of "Pippin" from the constitutionally impermissible censoring of "non-program related expressions of student opinion."
Id. at 216 .
The District's reliance on Trachtman v. Anker , 563 F.2d 512 (2d Cir.1977), where school officials restrained students' efforts to distribute a sex questionnaire, is also misplaced.
The narrow question before the Second Circuit was whether the school officials made an adequate showing to justify their prohibition of the distribution of the questionnaire.
The court held that the record established a substantial basis for defendants' belief that distribution of the questionnaire would result in emotional harm to students.
Id. at 520 .
There simply has been no such showing here.
When Fraser delivered his nominating speech to fellow students who were assembled for the explicit purpose of exchanging ideas and information about candidates for school office, he spoke under the protective cloak of the First Amendment .
As the Supreme Court said in Keyishian v. Board of Regents , 385 U.S. 589 , 87 S.Ct. 675 , 17 L.Ed.2d 629 (1967): Shelton v. Tucker 364 U.S. 479 at 487 81 S.Ct. 247 at 251 5 L.Ed.2d 231 Id. at 603 , 87 S.Ct. at 683 .
Just as in the political world outside the school, the First Amendment requires that the principal restraint on the choice of words and ideas in political dialogue is the risk of disapproval by the audience the speaker hopes to influence.
To their credit, Bethel High School officials created an open forum for students to express their political views; when they did so, they implicated the fundamental right of participation in the process of self-government, albeit a student government.
The school officials are to be commended for giving the students an opportunity to gain practical experience in the democratic process.
That is exactly what Fraser was doing.
He made a personal judgment when he chose to use sexual innuendo in his speech.
It may have been politically risky to do so, but the decision was his and his alone to make.
As long as the speech was neither obscene nor disruptive, the First Amendment protects him from punishment by school officials.
As Justice Jackson said, "That they are educating the young for citizenship is reason for scrupulous protection of Constitutional freedoms of the individual, if we are not to strangle the free mind at its source and teach youth to discount important principles of our government as mere platitudes."
West Virginia v. Barnette , 319 U.S. at 637 , 63 S.Ct. at 1185 .
In conclusion, we hold that the District violated Fraser's First Amendment rights when it disciplined him for the language and verbal imagery he used in nominating his candidate for office. 12 The declaratory judgment and the award of attorney's fees and costs are AFFIRMED.
Because the injunction served its purpose of assuring that Fraser qualified as a commencement speaker, it is VACATED as moot.
13
