 SPOTTSWOOD W. ROBINSON, III , Chief Judge: This appeal presents principally the question whether a corporate employer is accountable under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 1 as amended by the Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972, 2 for its supervisor's sexual harassment of a woman employee notwithstanding the employer's lack of actual knowledge thereof.
The District Court answered in the negative.
3 We conclude that this holding is inconsistent with the intent of Title VII , and accordingly reverse.
I We launch our review with a summary of the pertinent facts, as they were accepted by the District Court.
In 1974, appellant [**325] Mechelle Vinson met appellee Sidney L. Taylor, who was a vice president of appellee Capital City Federal Savings and Loan Association and the manager of its Northeast Branch.
4 At Vinson's request, Taylor gave her an application for employment which she completed and returned, and promptly thereafter she was hired by Capital City. 5 With Taylor as her supervisor, 6 Vinson began her employment as a teller-trainee, and thereafter was promoted successively to teller, head teller, and finally to assistant branch manager.
7 It is undisputed, and the District Court expressly found, that Vinson's advancement was achieved on merit alone.
8 Vinson worked at the Northeast Branch for four years, when she took indefinite sick leave, 9 and was discharged two months later for excessive use of that leave.
10 Vinson brought an action under Title VII against Taylor and Capital City, 11 alleging that she had been victimized by sex discrimination in the form of sexual harassment by Taylor.
12 At trial, the evidence bearing on Taylor's behavior during Vinson's employment was conflicting.
Vinson testified that Taylor asked her to have sexual relations with him, claiming that she "owed him" because he had obtained the job for her; that after initially declining his invitation she ultimately yielded, but only because she was afraid that continued refusal would jeopardize her employment.
13 She further testified that thereafter she was forced to submit to sexual advances by Taylor at the Northeast Branch both during and after business hours, and that often [**326] Taylor assaulted or raped her.
14 In addition, she avowed, Taylor caressed her on the job, followed her into the ladies' room when she was there alone, and at times exposed himself to her.
15 Vinson added that Taylor also fondled other women employees, 16 and she attempted to call witnesses to support this charge, but the District Court would not allow her "to present wholesale evidence of a pattern and practice relating to sexual advances to other female employees in her case in chief, but advised her that she might well be able to present such evidence in rebuttal to the defendants' cases."
17 Taylor denied Vinson's accusations of sexual activity and contended that Vinson aired them in retaliation for a business-related dispute.
18 Capital City also controverted Vinson's story, and asserted that any sexual harassment by Taylor was unknown to and unauthorized by it.
19 The District Court rendered judgment for Taylor and Capital City 20 on the grounds that Vinson had not been subjected to sexual harassment or discrimination, 21 and that in any event Capital City would not be accountable.
22 Our interpretation of Title VII leads us to disagree.
II We first address the District Court's holding that Vinson did not make out a case of sex discrimination, even against Taylor.
Given due deference to the court's findings of fact, 23 we believe that in critical respects they fatally undermine the legal conclusion that Vinson did not suffer a violation of Title VII .
The District Court found that Vinson "was not required to grant Taylor or any other member of Capital sexual favors as a condition of either her employment or in order to obtain promotion."
24 That finding would have significance had Vinson been confined to a theory of discrimination based upon an imposition of sex-oriented conditions to her employment status.
An infringement of Title VII is not, however, necessarily dependent upon the victim's loss of employment or promotion.
25 Depending upon the particular facts, at least two separate avenues may be open to a Title VII plaintiff for a demonstration of unlawful sex discrimination.
The first was recognized in Barnes v. Costle , 26 where we held that abolition of the job of a female [**327] employee because she spurned her male superior's sexual advances was an infringement of Title VII .
27 The second approach is illustrated by Bundy v. Jackson , 28 decided after the District Court's judgment herein, where we sustained a Title VII cause of action in favor of a woman employee seeking relief simply for pervasive on-the-job sexual harassment by her superiors.
29 Vinson's grievance was clearly of the latter type 30 and, accordingly, her case counseled an inquiry as to whether Taylor "created or condoned a substantially discriminatory work environment , regardless of whether the complaining employees lost any tangible job benefits as a result of the discrimination."
31 The District Court did not undertake a determination on whether a Title VII violation of this nature had occurred.
32 It follows that we must remand in order that the court may ascertain whether, as in Bundy , Vinson was subjected to "sexually stereotyped insults" or "demeaning propositions" that illegally poisoned the "psychological and emotional work environment."
33 34 [**328] This finding leaves us uncertain as to precisely what the court meant.
It could reflect the view that there was no Title VII violation because Vinson's employment status was not affected, an error to which we already have spoken.
Alternatively, the finding could indicate that because the relationship was voluntary there was no sexual harassment--no "[u]nwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature ha[ving] the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment."
35 If, however, the evidence warranted a finding of sexual harassment by that standard, Vinson's "voluntar[iness]" had no materiality whatsoever.
36 Bundy held that a woman employee need not prove resistance to sexual overtures in order to establish a Title VII claim of sexual harassment.
37 From that point we take what is hardly a major step by recognizing that a victim's capitulation to on-the-job sexual advances cannot work a forfeiture of her opportunity for redress.
If capitulation were dispositive, the "cruel trilemma" identified in Bundy --in which a victim must choose among acquiescence in the harassment, opposition to it, or resignation from her job 38 --would be an even more hideous quadrilemma featuring a fourth option--to yield and thereby lose all hope of legal redress for being put in this intolerable position in the first place.
We cannot ascribe to Congress a willingness to visit such an unenviable quandary upon an employee.
A victim's "voluntary" submission to unlawful discrimination of this sort can have no bearing on the pertinent inquiry: whether Taylor made Vinson's toleration of sexual harassment a condition of her employment.
Another matter, an evidentiary ruling, prompts brief discussion.
The District Court refused to allow Vinson to elicit, from other women under Taylor's supervision during her tenure, testimony that assertedly would have established that Taylor sexually harassed them also.
Some testimony of this kind was admitted on the issue of notice to Capital City of Taylor's behavior, but Vinson was not permitted to use it in her case-in-chief for other purposes.
39 Bundy makes clear that evidence tending to show Taylor's harassment of other women working alongside Vinson is directly relevant to the question whether he created an environment violative of Title VII .
40 Even a woman who was never herself the object of harassment might have a Title VII claim if she were forced to work in an atmosphere in which such harassment was pervasive.
41 The District Court erred when it denied Vinson the opportunity to demonstrate that Taylor had directed his advances toward other women also.
III The District Court also ruled that Vinson's employer, Capital City, could not be [**329] held responsible for any infringements of Title VII by Taylor because it had no notice of the offensive conduct charged to him. 42 To the court, "it seem[ed] reasonable that an employer should not be liable in these unusual cases of sexual harassment where notice to the employer must depend upon the actual perpetrator and when there is nothing else to place the employer on notice."
43 We cannot accept this conclusion or its rationale.
So much as this court has heretofore decided runs counter to the District Court's holding.
Nothing before us in Barnes suggested that the employer, a federal agency, was aware of the activity of the superior involved, yet we adverted to the general rule that "an employer is chargeable with Title VII violations occasioned by discriminatory practices of supervisory personnel," 44 and rejected the notion that the superior's conduct insulated the employer merely "because it was a personal escapade rather than an agency project."
45 And in Bundy , we reaffirmed our continuing allegiance to the proposition that an employer is answerable for discriminatory acts committed by supervisory personnel, 46 though we were not required there to apply that principle to employers without notice, since those having control over personnel practices had full knowledge of the harassment and did virtually nothing to stop it.
47 Today, however, we are confronted by the question that was not directly and actively litigated in Barnes or Bundy : Whether Title VII imposes upon an employer without specific notice of sexual harassment by supervisory personnel responsibility for that species of discrimination.
48 We hold that it does.
With exceptions not relevant here, 49 Title VII provides in pertinent part that [**330] 50 "Employer" is defined as "a person engaged in an industry affecting commerce" with a workforce of specified size, "and any agent of such a person ;" 51 and "person" includes "associations."
52 Taken literally, then, Title VII as much outlaws sex discrimination by an "agent" of an association as by the association itself; 53 put another way, such discrimination by an "agent" of Capital City is as much an affront to Title VII as it would be if engaged in by Capital City as an entity.
It is clear that Taylor, as manager of Capital City's Northeast Branch, was Capital City's "agent" with respect to other employees of that branch, 54 and equally clear that the sexual harassment charged to Taylor was forbidden sex discrimination.
55 We have encountered nothing impuning our reading of the statutory text as meaning that infractions of Title VII by agents are unlawful employment practices attributable to their employers.
The legislative history of Title VII is virtually barren of indications, one way or the other, of a vicarious responsibility for employers.
56 The Senate debates did, however, evoke a few expressions of concern over analogous matters, and these, such as they were, assumed that such a responsibility would exist.
Senator Stennis, in opposition to the bill that became Title VII , 57 felt that an employer might be held answerable for discrimination practiced by a labor union from which the employer secured its employees; "[u]nder this title," he stated, "it is altogether possible that individuals would be held responsible for violations over which they have no control."
58 Senator Tower, also a protestant, noted that a specific discriminatory intent was unnecessary, so that "[i]t would appear to be sufficient to show that discrimination does in fact exist."
59 While we are wary of interpretations of a statute voiced by opponents during heated debate, we know that at least the prospect of vicarious employer accountability was raised before Congress.
What the legislative history does not provide can be gleaned, however, from other persuasive indicators of congressional intent.
To begin with, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), has promulgated guidelines which, as "administrative interpretation[s] of the Act by the enforcing agency," are "entitled to great deference," 60 especially when they are supported [**331] by the statute and not inconsistent with its legislative history; 61 and EEOC's Guidelines on Discrimination Because of Sex 62 are unambiguous on the subject: Title VII 63 We attach considerable weight to this interpretation, and we agree that treatment of supervisory personnel as "agents" is in conformity with "general Title VII principles".
64 Our cases have established, as the cornerstone of present analysis, that sexual harassment is a violation of Title VII .
65 Neither the statutory language nor its legislative history suggests that, as a trespass on Title VII , it should be treated any differently from transgressions arising out of racial or religious discrimination.
66 And the caselaw in these latter areas establishes beyond cavil that "an employer is chargeable with Title VII violations occasioned by discriminatory practices of supervisory personnel."
67 We have no difficulty in concluding that an employer may be held accountable for discrimination accomplished [**332] through sexual harassment 68 by any supervisory employee with authority to hire, to promote or to fire.
An employer's delegation of this much authority vests in the supervisor such extreme power over the victimized employee that the supervisor's stature as an "agent" of the employer cannot be doubted.
We do not believe, however, that vicarious responsibility is limited to discrimination by supervisors so richly endowed.
The mere existence--or even the appearance 69 --of a significant degree of influence in vital job decisions gives any supervisor the opportunity to impose upon employees.
That opportunity is not dependent solely upon the supervisor's authority to make personnel decisions; the ability to direct employees in their work, to evaluate their performances and to recommend personnel actions carries attendant power to coerce, intimidate and harass.
70 For this reason, we think employers must answer for sexual harassment of any subordinate by any supervising superior.
71 In so holding, we consider only the statutory language and interpretations authoritatively placed upon it.
We do not resort to the common-law doctrine of respondeat superior.
72 Echoing the words of the Supreme Court in an analogous context, "[i]t will not do, for deciding the question as one of uniform national application, to import wholesale the traditional common-law conceptions That result hardly would be consistent with the statute's broad terms and purposes."
73 Traditional principles of respondeat superior, as they obtain in the field of torts, are not altogether suitable for resolution of questions of Title VII law. 74 The explanation is manifest: Title VII is a mandate from Congress to cure a perceived evil--certain types of discrimination in employment--in [**333] a prescribed fashion.
75 Rules of tort law, on the other hand, have evolved over centuries to meet diverse societal demands by allocating risks of harm and duties of care.
Without clear congressional instruction, we think it unsafe in developing Title VII jurisprudence to rely uncritically on dogma thus begotten.
More particularly, limitations imposed by the doctrine of respondeat superior have no place in enforcement of the congressional will underlying Title VII.
Confining liability, as the common law would, to situations in which a supervisor acted within the scope of his authority conceivably could lead to the ludicrous result that employers would become accountable only if they explicitly require or consciously allow their supervisors to molest women employees.
76 While modern courts seem more inclined to treat intentional misconduct on the job as arising out of and in the course of the employment, 77 and thus as providing a basis for liability under a somewhat expanded theory of respondeat superior, there simply is no need to so confine either the analysis or the solution where Title VII applies.
78 To hold that an employer cannot be reached for Title VII violations unknown to him is, too, to open the door to circumvention of Title VII by the simple expedient of looking the other way, even as signs of discriminatory practice begin to gather on the horizon.
As the Ninth Circuit has said, "[s]uch a rule would create an enormous loophole in the statutes," 79 one we think the courts should strive to seal.
Instead of providing a reason for employers to remain oblivious to conditions in the workplace, we think the enlightened purpose of Title VII calls for an interpretation cultivating an incentive for employers to take a more active role in warranting to each employee that he or she will enjoy a working environment free from illegal sex discrimination.
80 A higher level of imputed responsibility than respondeat superior imposes is one way to guard against the danger that disobedience of Title VII will escape scrutiny and go unremedied.
Employer responsiveness to on-the-job discrimination at the supervisory level is an essential aspect of the remedial scheme embodied in Title VII.
It is the employer alone who is able promptly and effectively to halt discriminatory practices by supervisory personnel, and only the employer can provide reinstatement, backpay or other remedial relief contemplated by the Act.
81 Much of the promise of Title VII will become empty if victims of unlawful discrimination cannot secure redress from the only source capable of providing it.
A requirement of knowledge by the employer of Title VII transgressions by supervisory personnel would effectively eliminate vicarious Title VII responsibility altogether.
[**334] It would reserve Title VII liability for only those employers who fail to redress known violations--a direct, not a substitutional, theory of attribution.
This would be a retreat from the level of protection Title VII has consistently and designedly afforded, 82 and take a backward step we refuse to endorse.
In sum, we hold that Vinson alleged facts sufficient to state a claim of sex discrimination cognizable under Title VII, and that any discriminatory activity by Taylor is attributable to Capital City.
Vinson is entitled to an adjudication of that claim on the evidence, considered in light of the legal principles applicable.
To that end, we reverse the judgment appealed from and remand the case to the District Court for proceedings consistent with this opinion.
So ordered .
