 CONTIE , Circuit Judge.
Intervenor-City of Cleveland Firefighters Association, Local # 93, I.A.F.F., AFL-CIO (Local 93) appeals from the district court's entry of a consent decree which contains a race-conscious, affirmative action plan to increase the number of Black and Hispanic officers within the Cleveland Fire Department.
In this appeal, we must first determine whether Local 93 has standing to challenge the consent decree.
If standing exists, we must then decide whether the district court abused its discretion by ruling that the decree was "a fair, reasonable and adequate resolution of the claims raised in this action."
I. On October 23, 1980, the Vanguards of Cleveland (Vanguards), an association of Black and Hispanic firefighters employed by the City of Cleveland, brought a class action under the thirteenth and fourteenth Amendments , 42 U.S.C. 1981 and 1983 , and title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq.
, to redress alleged discrimination by the Cleveland Fire Department in its promotion of minority firefighters.
The complaint alleged that the City had maintained its discriminatory promotions policy by (1) the use of unfair written tests and seniority points, (2) the manipulation of retirement dates vis a vis the dates upon which promotional eligibility lists expired, and (3) the City's failure to hold an examination for promotions since April 1975.
The complaint further alleged that only 4.3% of the firefighters who had attained the rank of Lieutenant or above were minorities.
In their prayer for relief, the Vanguards sought, inter alia , a declaratory judgment that the City had engaged in discriminatory employment practices, an injunction prohibiting the continuation of such practices, and the institution of "an affirmative hiring and promotion program to eliminate the effects of past discriminatory practices."
Shortly after the complaint was filed, counsel for both parties initiated negotiations in an attempt to reach a settlement.
In April 1981, Local 93 filed its motion to intervene as of right pursuant to FED.R.CIV.P. 24(a)(2) .
This motion was granted by the district court on June 5, 1981.
Thereafter, Local 93 filed its complaint in which it alleged that it was "the representative of the members of the International Association of Fire Fighters Local # 93 all of whom are employees of the Cleveland Fire Department, any and all of whom may be affected by any decision which may be rendered in the instant lawsuit."
The complaint also asserted that "[p]romotions based upon any criteria other than competence, such as a racial quota system, would deny those most capable from their promotions and would deny the residents of the City of Cleveland from maintaining the best possible fire fighting force."
In November 1981, the Vanguards and the City filed a proposed consent decree with the district court.
On January 7-8, 1982, the district court held an evidentiary hearing to consider the intervenor's objections to the decree.
At this time, the parties submitted stipulations of fact which indicated that the percentage of minority residents in the City of Cleveland was 46.9% in 1980, but that the percentage of minority firefighters occupying the ranks of Lieutenant or above was only 4.5%.
At the close of the hearing, the district judge urged the parties to engage in "some intensive dialogue" in order to resolve their differences.
At a second evidentiary hearing held on April 27, 1982, the district court indicated that no agreement had been reached and that the intervenor's primary objection to the decree was its use of racial quotas to alleviate the effects of past discrimination.
The court later referred this matter to a magistrate for further negotiations.
On November 12, 1982, the magistrate reported that a tentative agreement among counsel for all parties had been reached.
This agreement, however, was later rejected by the membership of Local 93.
At that point, the Vanguards submitted another proposed consent decree which had been negotiated only by the Vanguards and the City.
This decree contained an affirmative action plan for the promotion of Black and Hispanic firefighters which reads as follows: On January 19, 1983, the district court directed all parties who objected to the proposed consent decree to submit their objections in writing and to show cause why the court should not approve the proposed decree.
Local 93 filed a formal objection in which it reiterated its "absolute and total objection to the use of racial quotas " On January 31, 1983, the district court adopted the proposed consent decree.
The court first found that "[t]he documents, statistics and testimony presented at the January and April 1982 hearings reveal a historical pattern of racial discrimination in promotions in the City of Cleveland Fire Department."
The court then found that the affirmative action plan incorporated within the proposed consent decree was not an unreasonable remedy in light of this discrimination.
Accordingly, the court adopted the consent decree "as a fair, reasonable, and adequate resolution of the claims raised in this action."
Intervenor appeals.
II.
At the outset, the City contends that Local 93 has no standing to appeal the consent decree because the decree neither interferes with any legal relationship between Local 93 and the settling parties nor binds Local 93 in any other way.
See Utility Contractors Association of New Jersey, Inc. v. Toops , 507 F.2d 83, 85-86 (3d Cir.1974).
Absent such a relationship, the City reasons, Local 93 is, in effect, an amicus curiae who has set forth the view of a majority of its members that the affirmative action plan is inappropriate.
We acknowledge that an appealable order may not be challenged by the world at large or even by every party to the suit in which it is entered.
It does not follow, however, that a party lacks standing to appeal the entry of a consent decree simply because it is not formally bound or restricted by the agreement.
To have standing, a party must be aggrieved by the judicial action from which it appeals.
Deposit Guaranty National Bank v. Roper , 445 U.S. 326, 333 , 100 S.Ct. 1166, 1171 , 63 L.Ed.2d 427 (1980); Machella v. Cardenas , 659 F.2d 650, 652 (5th Cir.1981).
In addition, this circuit has ruled that a consent decree may be challenged only on the ground that its substantive provisions unlawfully infringe upon the rights of the complainant.
Stotts v. Memphis Fire Department , 679 F.2d 541, 558 (6th Cir.1982), reversed on other grounds , U.S. , 104 S.Ct. 2576 , 81 L.Ed.2d 483 (1984).
It may well be that no legally protected interests of non-minority firefighters are adversely affected by this consent decree.
For standing purposes, however, this analysis places the cart before the horse.
In the present case, regardless of how moderate the preference given to the plaintiff class, and how modest the detriment placed upon the intervenor class, there will be some detriment to the latter group.
Accordingly, we hold that this intervening party has been sufficiently aggrieved by the district court's order to have standing to challenge the consent decree on the grounds that it unlawfully infringes upon the constitutional rights of the non-minority firefighters.
See Kirkland v. New York State Department of Correctional Services , 711 F.2d 1117, 1126 (2d Cir.1983), cert. denied , U.S. , 104 S.Ct. 997 , 79 L.Ed.2d 230 (1984); Stotts , 679 F.2d at 558-59 .
III.
A consent decree, although founded on an agreement of the parties, is a final judgment.
Williams v. Vukovich , 720 F.2d 909, 920 (6th Cir.1983).
When presented with a proposed consent decree, the district court must ascertain only that the settlement is fair, adequate and reasonable.
Id. at 921 .
In making this determination, the court must consider, inter alia , whether the affirmative action plan is reasonably related to the objective of remedying prior discrimination and whether the plan is fair and reasonable to non-minorities who may be affected by it.
Bratton v. City of Detroit , 704 F.2d 878, 887 (6th Cir.), modified on rehearing , 712 F.2d 222 (6th Cir.1983), cert. denied , U.S. , 104 S.Ct. 703 , 79 L.Ed.2d 168 (1984).
A consent decree may not embody an affirmative action plan unless the employer has utilized minorities at a rate less than their proportion in the relevant labor market.
Williams , 720 F.2d at 921-22 .
The plan itself cannot require the discharge of non-minority workers and their replacement with minorities.
See United Steelworkers of America v. Weber , 443 U.S. 193, 208 , 99 S.Ct. 2721, 2729 , 61 L.Ed.2d 480 (1979).
1 The plan also cannot create an absolute bar to the advancement of non-minority employees.
Id. Finally, the decree must be temporary in nature and must terminate when the underutilization of minorities has been corrected.
Id. Once the district court approves the consent decree, its decision will be reviewed by this court under the abuse of discretion standard.
Stotts , 679 F.2d at 555 .
Local 93 does not contest the district court's finding of racial discrimination and thus does not deny the existence of a substantial state interest in some remedial action.
See Bratton , 704 F.2d at 886 .
Local 93 does contend, however, that this affirmative action plan is unreasonable because it penalizes innocent non-minority firefighters.
This circuit has repeatedly indicated that a simple reduction in non-minority "expectations" does not necessarily make a consent decree unfair or unreasonable.
Williams , 720 F.2d at 922 .
Since non-minorities do not have a legally protected interest in promotions which could only be made pursuant to discriminatory employment practices, it follows that the legal rights of non-minorities will not be adversely affected by reasonable and lawful race-conscious hiring or promotional remedies.
Kirkland , 711 F.2d at 1126 .
For the reasons set forth below, we hold that the district court did not abuse its discretion in finding that the consent decree was fair, reasonable and adequate.
The statistical evidence of promotion practices within the Cleveland Fire Department, combined with the City's admission in the consent decree of past discrimination in its hiring and promotion of minority firefighters, clearly established a substantial state interest in some remedial action.
The affirmative action remedy embodied in the consent decree is, in our opinion, fair and reasonable to the non-minority firefighters.
See Bratton , 702 F.2d at 887 .
The relatively modest goals set forth in the plan represent a permissible and effective means for the City to achieve its constitutionally permissible ends within the foreseeable future.
Moreover, the plan does not require the hiring of unqualified minority firefighters or the discharge of any non-minority firefighters.
The plan also does not create an absolute bar to the advancement of non-minority employees.
During the first stage of the plan, all promotions are to be made by coupling the highest ranking non-minority and minority candidates based upon the relative eligible list rankings.
Thereafter, the City must maintain a specified percentage of minority firefighters at each grade level pursuant to the administration of future promotions examinations.
The plan also provides, however, that these percentages are subject to modification if there is an insufficient number of qualified minority candidates: Finally, the affirmative action plan will remain in effect for only four years, which indicates that the plan "is not intended to maintain racial balance, but simply to eliminate a manifest racial imbalance."
Weber , 443 U.S. at 208 , 99 S.Ct. at 2730 .
Local 93 also contends that the plan is unnecessary because there already exists an entry-level affirmative action plan "which will, within the time period contemplated by the decree, operate naturally to increase minority representation within the fire department's upper ranks."
As the number of minority firefighters increases, the Union reasons, the number of minority officers will likewise increase.
We reject the argument that a district court may not authorize an affirmative action plan to end the present effects of past racial discrimination simply because other measures may , over the course of future years, achieve the same result.
Such reasoning is entirely too speculative given the "historical pattern of racial discrimination in promotions in the City of Cleveland Fire Department."
The district court has determined that this affirmative action plan is reasonably related to the remedial purpose of correcting the racial imbalance in the firefighters' supervisory ranks.
The court has also determined that the plan will achieve this result without trammeling the interests of the non-minority firefighters.
Upon careful consideration, we hold that the district court did not abuse its discretion in approving the proposed consent decree.
IV.
After hearing oral argument in this case, the Supreme Court handed down its decision in Firefighters Local Union No. 1784 v. Stotts , U.S. , 104 S.Ct. 2576 , 81 L.Ed.2d 483 (1984).
Concerned with the potential impact of Stotts , we ordered the parties to submit supplemental briefs addressing the effect, if any, of Stotts on this appeal.
After considering the supplemental briefs, we conclude that Stotts has no effect on this case. The controversy in Stotts involved which employees would first be laid off in the Memphis Fire Department.
A prior consent decree had instituted a plan to remedy past discrimination by setting goals for the hiring and promotion of minorities.
See id. , 104 S.Ct. at 2581 .
Due to a "budgetary shortfall," id. , the City of Memphis was forced to layoff personnel in many of its departments, including the Fire Department.
The City announced its intention to layoff employees on a "last hired, first fired" basis in accordance with the City's seniority system.
Id. at 2581-82 .
The district court enjoined the City from doing so. The Supreme Court succinctly stated the issue in Stotts as "whether the District Court exceeded its powers in entering an injunction requiring white employees to be laid off, when the otherwise applicable seniority system would have called for the layoff of black employees with less seniority."
Id. at 2585 (footnotes omitted).
On the facts alone, Stotts is distinguishable from this case. In Stotts , the district court's action had the direct effect of abrogating a valid seniority system to the detriment of non-minority workers.
In this case, the consent decree assured the integrity of the existing seniority system.
In the past, employees with greater seniority were given a slight advantage in the promotional process.
This is the only point at which a seniority system has any bearing on this case.
This benefit of seniority is, however, maintained by the consent decree.
Paragraph five of the decree provides, in part: "Seniority points will continue to be used as criteria for promotion for the examinations specified in Paragraph 11, jurisdiction being reserved in the Court to determine, upon motion of any party, the propriety of their use thereafter."
2 The consent decree in this case, unlike the injunction in Stotts , plainly does not interfere with any seniority rights.
Another point of distinction removes this case beyond the pale of Stotts altogether.
The district court in Stotts ordered, over the objection of the City, that the seniority system be ignored in executing layoffs.
The Supreme Court expressly rejected any construction of the previous consent decree which would have required the City to layoff non-minorities first.
See id. at 2585-86 .
In contrast, the City of Cleveland has agreed to the plan adopted in this case. The fact that this case involves a consent decree and not an injunction makes the legal basis of the Stotts decision inapplicable.
That cases like the present one are different from cases like Stotts was recognized in the Stotts opinion itself: Id. at 2590 (footnote omitted).
Stotts relied principally on two provisions of title VII , 703(h) and 706(g) .
3 Both of these provisions, however, merely limit a court's power to award certain relief.
Neither makes any conduct illegal.
In short, these sections provide a shield to an employer in defending a title VII action, not a sword to an employee claiming that certain conduct violates title VII .
Section 703(h) provides, in part, that "it shall not be an unlawful employment practice" for an employer to differentiate between employees on the basis of a "bona fide seniority or merit system, or a system which measures earnings by quantity or quality of production."
4 It does not state that an employer is required to make such differentiations.
In short, an employer does not, by the mere force of 703(h) , violate title VII by failing to adhere to the procedures permitted by that section.
Similarly, 706(g) merely provides that "[n]o order of the court shall require " an employer to give relief to an employee who suffered adverse job action if the action was taken "for any reason other than discrimination on account of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin or in violation of section 2000e-3(a) of this title."
5 By its very terms, this section provides a limit only on a court's power to award relief.
It does not forbid an employer from engaging in certain actions but rather limits what an employer may be forced to do.
The quotations in Stotts from the legislative history of 706(g) support our conclusions.
These quotations consistently refer to limitations on a court's power to "order" or "require" certain action of an employer; they do not address what action an employer may take voluntarily.
See Stotts , 104 S.Ct. at 2589-90 : 6 Stotts must also be read in light of Weber .
Weber held that an employer does not violate title VII by voluntarily adopting a reasonable race-conscious plan to increase minority employment, even when the plan has the effect of overriding the seniority rights of non-minorities.
See Weber , 443 U.S. at 208-09 , 99 S.Ct. at 2729-30 .
Given this holding, Weber precludes any notion that title VII absolutely forbids voluntary action by an employer to the detriment of the seniority rights of non-minority workers.
To read Stotts as invalidating the present plan as impermissible under title VII is to conclude that Stotts sub silentio overruled Weber .
7 We believe that the Court would have expressly addressed Weber had it intended to overrule that decision.
8 Our colleague in dissent would apparently agree that if this case may be categorized as involving voluntary as opposed to court-ordered action, Stotts would not affect our decision.
The point of disagreement is whether, as the dissent puts it, this case "should be governed by the principles applicable to court-ordered relief."
See post at 489.
The dissent's conclusion that those principles are applicable is based on the proposition that a consent decree may not embody provisions that could not be ordered by a court in a wholly coercive action under title VII .
Although it is admitted that the Court in Stotts "was not directly faced with the question of whether adoption of a consent decree is limited by the remedies available under the statute being enforced," the proposition upon which the dissent relies is said to be a "necessary postulate from which the Court reached its holding."
See post at 491.
It is by no means clear that the majority in Stotts ever reached this conclusion.
The majority did quote from System Federation No. 91 v. Wright , 364 U.S. 642, 651 , 81 S.Ct. 368, 373 , 5 L.Ed.2d 349 (1961), to support its statement that "the District Court's authority to impose a modification of a decree is not wholly dependent on the decree."
See 104 S.Ct. at 2587 n. 9.
The Stotts majority nowhere says, however, that consent decrees must strictly conform to the scope of relief available to a court in a wholly coercive action; it merely states that "a district court cannot enter a disputed modification of a consent decree in Title VII litigation if the resulting order is inconsistent with that statute."
Id. (emphasis added).
In any event, the Wright case involved a decree which had become patently inconsistent with the substantive policy of the underlying statute, a situation far different from the one now before this court.
The language from Wright on which the dissent relies does not bar a court from adopting a consent decree which provides relief beyond that authorized in the underlying statute.
System Federation No. 91 v. Wright Citizens for a Better Environment v. Gorsuch , 718 F.2d 1117, 1118, 1125 (D.C.Cir.1983), cert. denied , U.S. , 104 S.Ct. 2668 , 81 L.Ed.2d 373 (1984) (citation omitted).
9 Indeed, other courts have flatly rejected the dissent's position: "Consent decrees need not be limited to the relief that a court could provide on the merits."
See Sanson Committee v. Lynn , 735 F.2d 1535, 1538 (3d Cir.1984) (citing Pacific Railroad v. Ketchum , 101 U.S. (11 Otto) 289, 297 , 25 L.Ed. 932 (1879)).
See also Sansom , 735 F.2d at 1547 (Garth, Circuit Judge, dissenting) ("the consent decree may even prescribe relief beyond that authorized by the statute").
Moreover, if the Stotts majority meant to say what the dissent believes it said, it is hard to explain the majority's statement that "it is reasonable to believe that the 'remedy', which it was the purpose of the decree to provide, would not exceed the bounds of the remedies that are appropriate under Title VII , at least absent some express provision to that effect ."
See id. , 104 S.Ct. at 2586 (emphasis added).
If it was a "necessary postulate" for Stotts that consent decrees must strictly conform to court-ordered title VII remedies, then the majority surely would have simply said so when discussing whether the initial decree supported the injunction.
Instead, it believed it necessary to construe the decree to not include remedies beyond those which a court may order.
Finally, although the majority in Stotts was somewhat ambiguous on this point, the three dissenters and Justice Stevens were not.
They unequivocally rejected our colleague's position.
See 104 S.Ct. at 2594 n. 3 (Stevens, J., concurring); id. at 2605 n. 9 (Blackmun, J., dissenting).
That Stotts looked to the limits of a court's powers under title VII is not surprising, since the City strenuously objected to the court's action.
In Stotts , the decree was essentially coercive and consensual in name only.
Accordingly, the Court did not analyze the case as involving voluntary action.
In the present case, the decree reflects voluntary action 10 and must be analyzed as a voluntary action case. Since nothing in title VII , as interpreted in Stotts , 11 forbids this consent decree and since, as we have already determined, see supra at 484-85, the decree is proper under the standards recognized in cases such as Bratton , the judgment of the district court is AFFIRMED.
