 PER CURIAM: Defendants 1 appeal from the district court's grant of Plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment and the imposition of a permanent injunction.
Finding no error, this Court affirms.
I. FACTS AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY The background facts for this appeal are thoroughly explained in the prior consolidated appeal of this action.
See Trans World Airlines, Inc. v. Mattox , 897 F.2d 773 (5th Cir.1990).
In the prior appeal, a panel of this Court affirmed the district court's issuance of a preliminary injunction.
It is necessary here only to note one significant factual event which occurred subsequent to the prior appeal.
The district court, after considering this Court's prior opinion, granted summary judgment in favor of Plaintiffs and permanently enjoined the Defendants "and all other parties acting in concert or participating with the Defendnts [sic] or on their behalf, and all other persons having actual knowledge of this order" from Defendants timely appealed.
II.
DISCUSSION Defendants advance the following issues in this appeal: 49 U.S.C. section 1305(a)(1) For the reasons set forth below, this Court finds no abuse of discretion on any of these listed issues.
Under the law of the case doctrine, an appellate court can refuse to reexamine in a subsequent appeal of the same case issues which were decided either explicitly or by necessary implication in the prior opinion.
Conway v. Chemical Leaman Tank Lines, Inc. , 644 F.2d 1059, 1061 (5th Cir.1981).
While use of the law of the case doctrine is not mandatory, a court is more likely to apply the doctrine when the prior opinion was apparently well-considered, as in the instant case.
Defendants concede that the prior opinion, reported at 897 F.2d 773 , became the law of the case with respect to the issues listed above as issues 7 through 12.
This Court agrees and will not reexamine issues 7 through 12.
The law of the case doctrine also applies to other issues as well.
In issue 1, Defendants claim that the district court lacked subject matter jurisdiction because of the lack of a case or controversy.
Defendants' arguments on this issue are substantially the same as made in the prior appeal.
While the prior opinion does not explicitly discuss it, the necessary assumption is that the prior panel found subject matter jurisdiction present.
Otherwise, the panel would not have reached the merits and affirmed the preliminary injunction.
This same rationale applies to the jurisdictional issue presented in issue.
2 Defendants' arguments in the prior appeal on this issue were substantially the same and the panel implicitly found subject matter jurisdiction.
Issues 2, 3 and 5 reflect essentially the same argument.
Defendants contend that the district court erred in granting summary judgment because there were unresolved fact issues.
Defendants have failed to point out any outstanding factual issue relevant to the judgment.
The question of preemption, the cornerstone of the case, is a question of law which the district court could clearly resolve on the basis of the summary judgment evidence available.
Further, Defendants' contention that there were unresolved fact issues necessary to determine the existence of subject matter jurisdiction is without merit.
As discussed above, the prior panel evidently found subject matter jurisdiction without the need to resolve any fact issue.
Finally, Defendants argue in issue 6 that the permanent injunction is overly broad by encompassing "all other persons having actual knowledge of this order."
The injunction clearly applies to Defendants and Defendants do not contend otherwise.
This Court need not decide whether such language is overly broad, however, since Defendants have no standing to assert the rights of hypothetical third parties.
III.
CONCLUSION The Court finds no reversible error.
The district court is affirmed.
AFFIRMED.
