 TJOFLAT , Chief Judge: In Burden v. Zant , 903 F.2d 1352 (11th Cir.1990) ( Burden II ), rev'd and remanded in part , U.S. , 111 S.Ct. 862 , 112 L.Ed.2d 962 (1991) (per curiam), we rejected Jimmie Burden, Jr.
's claim that his counsel labored under a conflict of interest in violation of Burden's Sixth Amendment right to effective counsel.
Burden II , 903 F.2d at 1361 .
Specifically, Burden alleged in his petition for a writ of habeas corpus under 28 U.S.C. 2254 (1988), that his counsel, while representing both him and Henry Lee Dixon, negotiated transactional immunity for Dixon, who wound up as the principal witness against Burden at trial.
Burden advanced this factual allegation in support of his claim that a conflict of interest hampered his counsel's performance.
The Supreme Court remanded the case for us to "consider petitioner's conflict-of-interest claim free from [our] erroneous failure to credit the state trial court's finding 1 that Dixon testified under a grant of immunity."
Burden v. Zant , U.S. , , 111 S.Ct. 862, 865 , 112 L.Ed.2d 962 (1991) ( per curiam ).
2 The state trial court's observation that Dixon testified under a grant of immunity appeared in a standard post-conviction report required under Georgia law in all capital cases as an administrative convenience to facilitate the Georgia Supreme Court's review.
See infra note 6.
In this opinion, we make explicit that the state trial court's observation is not entitled to a presumption of correctness under 28 U.S.C. 2254(d) because material facts were not adequately developed before that court.
Id .
2254(d)(3) .
Therefore, we once again affirm the district court's denial of Burden's habeas petition.
I. 3 On August 1, 1981, the police arrested Jimmie Burden, Jr.
on a charge of burglarizing his sister's home.
Shortly thereafter, the state trial court appointed Kenneth Kondritzer, the public defender for the Middle Judicial Circuit of Georgia, 4 to represent Burden.
On September 15, 1981, while Burden was awaiting trial on the burglary charge, his nephew, Henry Lee Dixon, gave a statement to the police implicating petitioner in the unsolved 1974 murders of Louise Wynn and her three children.
Based on this statement, the police obtained warrants charging both Burden and Dixon with the four murders.
The court appointed Kondritzer, who continued to represent Burden, to represent Dixon as well.
On November 19, 1981, the court held a committal hearing for Dixon in Washington County, Georgia.
Kondritzer appeared on Dixon's behalf.
The court determined at this hearing that there was not probable cause to hold Dixon for any of the murders; the court, however, granted the State's motion to require Dixon, as a material witness, to post a $50,000 bond to guarantee his appearance at trial.
Dixon did not post this bond and remained in custody until the close of Burden's trial.
The grand jury indicted Burden on December 7, 1981, for the four murders.
At the end of December, Kondritzer left the public defender's office, and Michael Moses, the other member of the public defender's office, 5 took over Burden's case. At Burden's trial in March 1982, Dixon's testimony provided the key evidence linking petitioner to the murders.
The jury convicted petitioner on all counts.
At sentencing, the jury found one statutory aggravating circumstance and recommended death sentences for each murder.
6 The Georgia Supreme Court affirmed all four convictions and three of the four death sentences.
Burden v. State , 250 Ga. 313 , 297 S.E.2d 242 (1982), cert. denied , 460 U.S. 1103 , 103 S.Ct. 1803 , 76 L.Ed.2d 367 (1983).
After exhausting his state remedies, Burden unsuccessfully sought a petition for a writ of habeas corpus in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Georgia.
Burden v. Zant , 690 F.Supp.
1040 (M.D.Ga.1988).
On appeal, we remanded the case to the district court for an evidentiary hearing on Burden's conflict-of-interest claim because the record was not sufficient to permit a proper analysis of this claim.
Burden v. Zant , 871 F.2d 956, 957 (11th Cir.1989) ( Burden I ).
After the district court completed an evidentiary hearing and entered findings of fact and conclusions of law, we affirmed the district court's denial of the petition.
Burden II , 903 F.2d at 1361 .
As previously noted, the Supreme Court subsequently reversed our decision with respect to one aspect of petitioner's conflict-of-interest claim and remanded the case.
Burden , U.S. at , 111 S.Ct. at 865 .
II.
Burden claims that his counsel, Kondritzer, secured transactional immunity for Dixon in exchange for Dixon's testimony against petitioner at trial.
7 According to Burden, this agreement effectively put Kondritzer in the position of having to sacrifice one client, Burden, in order to protect another client, Dixon.
After striking a deal with the State, Kondritzer, to enforce the agreement, had to advise a key witness to implicate his own client.
Thus, concludes petitioner, Kondritzer labored under a conflict of interest which adversely affected his representation of petitioner, in violation of petitioner's Sixth Amendment right to effective assistance of counsel.
In our prior opinion, we affirmed as not clearly erroneous the district court's conclusion, reached after a full evidentiary hearing, that "there is [no] evidence of transactional immunity being granted to Henry Lee Dixon " Burden II , 903 F.2d at 1360 .
Neither the district court nor this court made explicit reference to the observation by the state trial court, in its mandatory post-conviction report, that Dixon testified under a grant of immunity.
Specifically, our opinion did not explain why the state trial court's observation is not entitled to a presumption of correctness under 28 U.S.C. 2254(d) .
We now make plain what once was unclear.
As required under Georgia law, O.C.G.A.
17-10-35 (a) (1990), the state trial court in the present case completed a post-conviction report.
8 In an addendum to this standard questionnaire, the court, in explaining why it thought that the death sentence was appropriate in this case, described, among other things, Dixon's testimony.
The court stated that "[t]he State's case depended primarily upon the testimony and credibility of Henry Lee Dixon which was corroborated by [Burden's] potential for violence Dixon was granted immunity from prosecution and the jury was properly informed of this fact and an appropriate charge was given by the court to the jury."
A state court finding of historical fact is generally entitled to a presumption of correctness.
28 U.S.C. 2254(d) .
In certain circumstances, however, this presumption does not attach.
See id .
2254(d)(1) -(8).
As we explain below, we conclude that the material fact at issue here--whether Kondritzer negotiated and obtained transactional immunity for Dixon in exchange for testifying against petitioner--was not adequately developed before the state trial court.
Therefore, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 2254(d)(3) , we may not presume the correctness of the state trial court's comment on Dixon's immunity.
9 There was never a hearing on the issue of Dixon's immunity in the state trial court and the court's comment on Dixon's immunity did not appear in the context of findings of fact and conclusions of law. 10 The trial court completed the post-conviction report based on its impression of what occurred during petitioner's trial.
See Burden , U.S. at , 111 S.Ct. at 864 .
11 The only evidence presented at trial suggesting that the State granted Dixon immunity in exchange for his testimony against Burden appeared in Dixon's response to Moses' questions on cross-examination.
The examination went as follows: The trial court's impression that Dixon had received immunity also may have arisen from counsels' closing arguments to the jury.
The prosecutor stated that "[Dixon's] testimony may have, granted, we may have offered him immunity.
I think you realize that we did.
I'll tell you that we did.
Nothing ever came of it because the Court dismissed the charges as was stipulated."
Similarly, Moses, in closing, argued that Dixon "acknowledged on the stand that he received immunity, don't know for what, but [he] received it."
In our opinion, it is clear that whether Kondritzer actually negotiated and obtained transactional immunity for Dixon from the prosecution in exchange for Dixon's testimony against petitioner was not adequately developed in the state trial court.
At trial, this fact was only important as a means for petitioner to impeach Dixon; therefore, the parties spent little time or effort debating it.
12 Furthermore, Moses' cross-examination of Dixon raised more questions than it resolved: this colloquy does not settle what type of deal Dixon purportedly reached with the State; who, if anyone, negotiated this deal for Dixon; or the extent of Dixon's and the State's obligations under this deal.
It is this very uncertainty surrounding key factual questions relevant to Burden's allegation that Dixon testified under a grant of transactional immunity negotiated by Burden's counsel that prompted us to order a federal evidentiary hearing.
13 See Burden I , 871 F.2d at 957 .
Thus, in our judgment, it would be improper to presume the correctness of the state trial court's comment about Dixon's immunity.
Rather, it was essential that the district court, on habeas corpus review, conduct a full and fair hearing regarding the facts surrounding petitioner's claim.
Only in this way could the parties adequately develop the material facts of petitioner's claim--principally, whether Dixon testified under a grant of transactional immunity that Kondritzer obtained from the prosecution--so that we could make an informed decision concerning the merits of this claim.
After a full hearing, the district court concluded that Dixon did not testify under a grant of transactional immunity or pursuant to a promise that the State would not prosecute him for his part in the crimes at issue.
This finding by the district court is not clearly erroneous.
Therefore, we affirm the district court's conclusion that petitioner's conflict-of-interest claim is meritless.
See Burden II , 903 F.2d at 1359-60 .
III.
In summary, we hold that the state trial court's comment that Dixon testified under a grant of immunity is not entitled to a presumption of correctness because this material fact was not adequately developed before the trial court.
Instead, we affirm the district court's finding, which was reached after a full and fair evidentiary hearing, that Dixon did not testify under a grant of immunity.
Accordingly, we conclude that petitioner's conflict-of-interest claim is meritless.
The judgment of the district court is, accordingly, AFFIRMED.
