 EDMONDSON , Circuit Judge: 1 Three cases presenting the same or similar issues of Eleventh Amendment immunity were consolidated and are addressed in this appeal.
In all three cases, the States, or their agencies, submitted motions to dismiss based on Eleventh Amendment immunity.
The issues in this appeal are whether Congress abrogated States' Eleventh Amendment immunity for suits under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act ("ADEA") and under the Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA").
2 Two district courts, the Northern District of Florida, Tallahassee Division, in State of Florida, Board of Regents v. Kimel ( "Kimel" ) and the Northern District of Florida, Panama City Division, in Florida Department of Corrections v. Dickson ( "Dickson" ), held that Congress effectively abrogated States' sovereign immunity with its enactment of the ADEA (and for Dickson the ADA) and denied the motions to dismiss.
But, the Northern District of Alabama in MacPherson, Narz v. University of Montevallo ( "MacPherson" ) granted the State's motion to dismiss on Eleventh Amendment grounds.
We agree with the Northern District of Alabama that suits by private parties against States in federal court for ADEA violations are prohibited by the Eleventh Amendment.
The cases were appealed for us to decide whether Congress abrogated sovereign immunity when it enacted the relevant statutes. 3 Because this appeal presents only questions of law, not dependent upon factual determinations, the facts of each Plaintiff's claim will not be discussed.
Discussion A district court's order denying or granting a motion to dismiss a complaint against a State based on the Eleventh Amendment's grant of sovereign immunity is reviewed by this court de novo.
See Seminole Tribe of Florida v. Florida , 11 F.3d 1016, 1021 (11th Cir.1994), aff'd , 517 U.S. 44 , 116 S.Ct. 1114 , 134 L.Ed.2d 252 (1996).
The Eleventh Amendment states: U.S. Const.
amend.
XI.
This provision not only prohibits suits against States in federal court by citizens of other States, but also prohibits suits brought against a State in federal court by its own citizens.
Hans v. Louisiana , 134 U.S. 1 , 10 S.Ct. 504 , 33 L.Ed. 842 (1890).
4 In Seminole Tribe of Florida v. Florida , 517 U.S. 44 , 116 S.Ct. 1114 , 134 L.Ed.2d 252 (1996), the Supreme Court recently considered the issue of when Congress can properly abrogate States' Eleventh Amendment immunity.
The Court's decision in Seminole overruled Pennsylvania v. Union Gas Co. , 491 U.S. 1 , 109 S.Ct. 2273 , 105 L.Ed.2d 1 (1989), which held that acts taken by Congress pursuant to the Commerce Clause could, if sufficiently clear, abrogate Eleventh Amendment immunity.
In Seminole , the Court specifically held that Congress had no authority to abrogate State sovereign immunity under the Eleventh Amendment when Congress acted pursuant to the Commerce Clause; the power to abrogate only exists under Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment.
5 In addition, the Court set out precisely what Congress must do to abrogate the States' immunity.
Two requirements must be satisfied before Eleventh Amendment immunity can be successfully abrogated by Congress.
Seminole , 517 U.S. at 54 , 116 S.Ct. at 1123 .
First , Congress must have intended to abrogate that immunity by providing "a clear legislative statement" of its intent--"making its intention unmistakably clear in the language of the statute."
6 Id. (citing Blatchford v. Native Village of Noatak and Circle Village , 111 S.Ct. 2578, 2584 , and Dellmuth v. Muth , 491 U.S. 223, 224-25 , 109 S.Ct. 2397, 2399-2400 ).
Second , Congress must have attempted to abrogate this immunity under proper constitutional authority.
In other words, Congress must have enacted the statute at issue using its Fourteenth Amendment, Section 5 , enforcement powers.
See Seminole , 517 U.S. at 62-63 , 116 S.Ct. at 1127-28 .
7 I. Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 Although I believe good reason exists to doubt that the ADEA was (or could have been properly) enacted pursuant to the Fourteenth Amendment, I will not decide that question today; 8 I questions of constitutional power should be decided only as a last resort.
Instead, I focus on the ADEA's words and rest my decision on the lack of unmistakably clear legislative intent.
In searching the ADEA for an unequivocal statement of intent to abrogate, courts look only to the language of the statute itself.
Dellmuth , 491 U.S. at 228 , 109 S.Ct. at 2401 ("[E]vidence of congressional intent must be both unequivocal and textual [l]egislative history generally will be irrelevant" because if the intent is clear in the language of the statute, "recourse to legislative history will be unnecessary.")
(emphasis added).
A court's guess about Congress's political will and subjective intentions--past, present, or future--is without consequence; only the statute and its language are to be considered.
As directed by the Supreme Court, I do not go beyond the text of the ADEA in deciding whether it contains the requisite, unmistakably clear statement of intent to abrogate.
Id.
This requirement--that the intent to abrogate be found in an unmistakably clear statement in the language of the statute--necessitates a high level of clarity by Congress.
But, as the Supreme Court has observed, such a requirement of Congress is not too high when considering the important interests protected by the Eleventh Amendment.
The Eleventh Amendment recognizes that States, as a matter of constitutional law, are special entities--still possessing attributes of sovereignty.
The Amendment strikes a balance between the federal government and the States.
To alter that balance, Congress must be unmistakably clear in its intent.
See Dellmuth v. Muth , 491 U.S. at 226 , 109 S.Ct. at 2400 .
No unequivocal expression of an intent to abrogate immunity is unmistakably clear in the ADEA.
No reference to the Eleventh Amendment or to States' sovereign immunity is included.
Nor is there, in one place, a plain, declaratory statement that States can be sued by individuals in federal court.
To me, an intent on the part of Congress to abrogate the States' constitutional right to immunity is not sufficiently clear to be effective under Eleventh Amendment jurisprudence.
9 In one section, 29 U.S.C. 630 , the ADEA defines employers to include States.
In a different section, 29 U.S.C. 626(b) , which never mentions employers much less mentions States as defendants, the ADEA separately provides for enforcement by means of suits for legal or equitable relief in courts of competent jurisdiction.
This statutory structure does not provide the clarity needed to abrogate States' constitutional right to sovereign immunity.
For abrogation to be unmistakably clear, it should not first be necessary to fit together various sections of the statute to create an expression from which one might infer an intent to abrogate.
Although we make no definite rule about it, the need to construe one section with another, by its very nature, hints that no unmistakable or unequivocal declaration is present.
More important, when we do construe the various ADEA sections together, abrogation never becomes "as clear as is the summer's sun."
10 "A general authorization for suit in federal court is not the kind of unequivocal statutory language sufficient to abrogate the Eleventh Amendment."
See Seminole , 517 U.S. at 54 , 116 S.Ct. at 1123 (citing Atascadero State Hosp. v. Scanlon , 473 U.S. 234, 244 , 105 S.Ct. 3142, 3149 , 87 L.Ed.2d 171 (1985)).
"[T]hat Congress grants jurisdiction to hear a claim does not suffice to show Congress has abrogated all defenses to that claim."
Blatchford , 501 U.S. at 786 n. 4, 111 S.Ct. at 2585 n. 4.
Still, Plaintiffs argue, and all three district courts seemed to agree, that Congress's amendments to the ADEA in 1974--adding States, their agencies, and political subdivisions to the definition of "employer" (along with the original portions of the ADEA providing that the statute may be enforced in courts of competent jurisdiction)--represents the unmistakably clear legislative statement required to abrogate the Eleventh Amendment.
This view (which is opposed by the State in Dickson ) seems to clash with the Supreme Court's precedents.
In Employees of the Dept of Public Health and Welfare v. Missouri , 411 U.S. 279 , 93 S.Ct. 1614 , 36 L.Ed.2d 251 (1973), the Supreme Court held that the Fair Labor Standards Act ("FLSA") did not provide a sufficiently clear statement of intent to abrogate the Eleventh Amendment.
As initially enacted, the FLSA (like the ADEA) did not apply at all to States.
In 1966, the FLSA was amended to include certain State agencies in the definition of employer.
This amendment, the Court held, did not provide the clear statement of intent to abrogate immunity, despite the provisions allowing suits in courts of "competent jurisdiction" against employers who violated the FLSA.
Id. at 281 , 93 S.Ct. at 1617 .
"The history and tradition of the Eleventh Amendment indicate that by reason of that barrier a federal court is not competent to render judgment against a nonconsenting State."
Id. Like the ADEA, there was no dispute that the FLSA applied to the State agencies set out in the FLSA; the dispute was only about what kinds of enforcement were available when dealing with States as defendant-employers.
11 In a later decision, Dellmuth v. Muth , the Supreme Court held that the Education of the Handicapped Act (EHA) did not abrogate Eleventh Amendment immunity despite provisions allowing suit in federal district court and many provisions referring to the States as parties in suits of enforcement.
See Dellmuth , 491 U.S. at 226-27 , 109 S.Ct. at 2400-02 .
That the pertinent statute (like the ADEA) never mentioned either "the Eleventh Amendment or the States' sovereign immunity" was given weight.
Id. at 230 , 109 S.Ct. at 2402 .
Abrogation was not sufficiently clear.
Id. To include the States as employers under the ADEA, as in the FLSA, does not show an intent that the States be sued by private citizens in federal court--the kind of suit prohibited under the Eleventh Amendment.
12 The ADEA is enforceable against the States, despite sovereign immunity, through forms of relief other than direct suits by citizens in federal court.
13 Congress may have had these other forms of enforcement in mind when it amended the statute to include States as employers.
Thus, the general application of the law to the States does not make the requisite clear statement that Congress also intended the ADEA to abrogate the Eleventh Amendment specifically.
I do not dispute that some provisions of the ADEA make States look like possible defendants in suits alleging violations of the ADEA.
I accept that these provisions could support an "inference that the States were intended to be subject to damages actions for violations of the [ADEA]."
Dellmuth , 491 U.S. at 230 , 109 S.Ct. at 2402 .
But, as the Supreme Court stressed in Dellmuth , a permissible inference is not "the unequivocal declaration" that is required to show Congress's intent to exercise its powers of abrogation.
Id. 14 I conclude that nothing in the ADEA indicates a truly clear intent by Congress to abrogate Eleventh Amendment immunity and, thus, States are entitled to immunity from suits by private citizens in federal court under the ADEA.
II.
Americans With Disabilities Act In sharp contrast to the ADEA, the ADA does include a clear statement of intent to abrogate Eleventh Amendment immunity: "A State shall not be immune under the eleventh amendment " 42 U.S.C. 12202 .
15 Thus, the only argument that Eleventh Amendment immunity still exists is that the ADA was not enacted pursuant to the Fourteenth Amendment.
We are not persuaded by this argument.
Unlike the ADEA, it is plain that Congress was invoking its Fourteenth Amendment enforcement powers when it enacted the ADA.
See 42 U.S.C. 12101(b) ("It is the purpose of this chapter (4) to invoke the sweep of congressional authority, including the power to enforce the fourteenth amendment ").
Congress specifically found that "individuals with disabilities are a discrete and insular minority who have been faced with restrictions and limitations, subjected to a history of purposeful unequal treatment."
42 U.S.C. 12101(a)(7) .
16 We accept Congress's analysis of the situation addressed by the ADA and agree with the courts that have addressed the issue: the ADA was properly enacted under Congress's Fourteenth Amendment enforcement powers.
See, e.g. , Amos v. Maryland Dep't of Pub. Safety and Correctional Servs.
, 126 F.3d 589, 603 (4th Cir.1997).
17 Conclusion The Eleventh Amendment is an important part of the Constitution.
It stands for the constitutional principle that State sovereign immunity limits the federal courts' jurisdiction under Article III.
As such, Congress must make an unmistakably clear statement of its intent before a federal court can accept that States have been stripped of their constitutionally granted sovereign immunity.
For me, the ADEA contains no unequivocally clear statement of such intent.
The ADA does.
And the ADA was enacted under the authority of the Fourteenth Amendment.
For the reasons stated in our combined opinions, we hold that the ADEA does not abrogate States' Eleventh Amendment immunity but that the ADA does do so. Therefore, in Kimel , we REVERSE and REMAND for dismissal.
In Dickson , we AFFIRM in part and REVERSE in part and REMAND for further proceedings.
In MacPherson , we AFFIRM the district court's decision.
