 DIANE P. WOOD , Circuit Judge.
This case began almost three decades ago when inmates at what is now the Pendleton Correctional Facility in Indiana filed a class action against the state claiming that certain conditions at the prison violated their constitutional rights.
They obtained some of the relief they sought in an injunction that was affirmed by this court in French v. Owens , 777 F.2d 1250, 1258 (7th Cir.1985), and the prison has operated under that injunction, as modified from time to time, ever since.
The present action arose when the State of Indiana decided to take advantage of the 1996 Prison Litigation Reform Act ("PLRA") and petition to terminate the injunction.
The merits of that effort, however, are not before us at this time.
Instead, we must decide whether the so-called "automatic stay" provision of the PLRA, codified at 18 U.S.C. 3626(e)(2) , applies, and if it does, whether it is constitutional.
I A In order to place this case in context, we begin with a brief description of the PLRA as it affects injunctions addressing prison conditions.
The part of the statute with which we are concerned addresses the subject of "[a]ppropriate remedies with respect to prison conditions."
18 U.S.C. 3626 .
Subpart (a)(1) provides that a federal court must limit prospective relief with respect to prison conditions in a variety of ways: 18 U.S.C. 3626(a)(1) .
Recognizing that many institutions are already operating under existing injunctions, the statute also provides a way for the prison authorities to bring their federally imposed obligations into line with the limitations of 3626(a)(1) .
Part (b) sets out a road map for the termination of prospective relief that has either outlived its usefulness, or that violates the (a)(1) conditions.
Under the authority of 3626(b)(1) , prospective relief is terminable upon motion of any party or intervener within two years after the court granted the relief (or two years after the date of enactment of the PLRA), or one year after the court denied a request to terminate relief.
Subpart (b)(2) , which has come to be known as the "immediate termination" provision of the statute, establishes the defendant's or intervener's right to relief.
Because this is the basis for the state's petition, we set it out in its entirety: 18 U.S.C. 3626(b)(2) .
Hard on the heels of this provision is another that sets forth an exception to the entitlement to "immediate" termination: 18 U.S.C. 3626(b)(3) .
Part (c) of the PLRA addresses settlements, basically saying that a court may not enter a settlement in the form of a consent decree unless the settlement conforms to the statutory limitations, but that the parties are free to conclude any private settlement agreement they wish, as long as that agreement is not directly enforceable by the court (other than by reinstatement of the case).
Part (d) makes clear that the PLRA's limitations do not apply to relief entered by a state court based solely upon claims arising under state law.
Finally (for our purposes) is the automatic stay provision, part (e) .
It begins innocuously enough in subpart (e)(1) , by calling for the court to rule promptly on any motion to modify or terminate prospective relief.
The problems arise with subpart (e)(2) , which provides as follows: subsection (b) subsection (b) 18 U.S.C. 3626(e)(2) .
Since 1997, it has been possible for the court to order a modest extension of time before the automatic stay goes into effect, if the court takes advantage of subpart (e)(3) : (e)(2)(A) 18 U.S.C. 3626(e)(3) .
See Pub.L.
No. 105-119, 123, 11 Stat. 2440, 2470 (1997) (adding this language).
Finally, under subpart (e)(4) the statute expressly provides that an order "staying, suspending, delaying, or barring the operation of the automatic stay described in paragraph (2)" other than the orders authorized by (e)(3) may be appealed pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1292(a)(1) .
B With that background in mind, we now turn to what happened in this case. On June 5, 1997, Warden Jack R. Duckworth of the Pendleton Correctional Facility, along with Indiana officials Bruce Lemmon and Edward L. Conn (to whom we refer collectively as the state), filed a Motion To Terminate Decree, relying on 3626(b)(1) (A) and (b)(2) .
In response, on June 30, 1997, the prisoner class ("the prisoners") filed a Motion for a Temporary Restraining Order or Preliminary Injunction, in which they asked the court to stay the automatic stay provision of 3626(e)(2) , which they described in paragraph 2 of their motion.
They also filed a memorandum in support of the motion, in which they addressed the four standards that normally govern the issuance of a preliminary injunction: (a) likelihood of success on their argument that the automatic stay provision of 3626(e)(2) would be found unconstitutional; (b) irreparable harm to the prisoners if the "automatic termination" took effect; (c) lack of harm to the defendants if the "automatic termination" was stayed; and (d) the public interest.
The prisoners' memorandum concluded with a request that "the Court should enter a temporary restraining order or a preliminary injunction staying the operation of the automatic termination provision of the PLRA."
On the same day, the prisoners also filed a separate Response to Defendants' Motion to Terminate Decree, in which they set forth their position that the termination provisions of 3626 (b)(2) and (b)(3) are unconstitutional.
On July 3, 1997, the district court granted the temporary restraining order the prisoners had requested and scheduled a hearing on July 10 for fuller consideration of the preliminary injunction motion.
On July 11, following the hearing, the district court entered an order converting the TRO into a preliminary injunction.
The state has now appealed from that July 11 order.
Our review of the district court's actions is complicated by the fact that the court's orders granting the TRO and preliminary injunction can be read as confusing the 3626(e)(2) automatic stay provision with the 3626(b)(2) immediate termination provision.
(This confusion seems to have originated with the parties themselves.
We note that although the prisoners sought to stay the "automatic termination" provision, there is no such thing in the PLRA.
There is one section providing for immediate termination, and another requiring an automatic stay .)
Even though the prisoners had not asked for a TRO against the (b)(2) immediate termination provision, the July 3 order recites that it "enjoin[s] and prohibit[s] the automatic termination [sic] provision of the Prison Litigation Reform Act from taking effect."
Further, the July 11 order explains that the court was converting the TRO into a preliminary injunction "for the principal reason that the Court believes that 18 U.S.C. 3626(b)(2) is clearly unconstitutional as found by other courts."
The July 11 order concludes that "[a]ccordingly, there shall be no stay of prospective relief in this matter."
Although we considered remanding this case to the district court to find out what it really meant, in the end we concluded that such a step was unnecessary.
A review of the entire record (including the transcript of the July 10 hearing) convinces us that the district court intended to enjoin the (e)(2) automatic stay provision, not the (b)(2) immediate termination provision.
True, the orders referred to the "automatic termination" provision and to 18 U.S.C. 3626(b)(2) .
Several points convince us, however, that the district court simply cited the wrong statutory section, a mistake to which we need not attach any significance unless it affects the substantial rights of the parties, see Fed.R.Civ.
P. 61 .
First, the motion before the court and the arguments presented at the hearing on the preliminary injunction addressed only the automatic stay of (e)(2) , not the immediate termination required by (b)(2) .
There was a fair amount of discussion of (b)(2) at the hearing, but this was in the context of the likelihood that the prisoners could defeat the state's underlying petition for immediate termination.
Second, the record shows that proceedings have continued in the district court on the question whether the decree should be terminated pursuant to 3626(b)(2) , suggesting that the lower court is of the view that it did not finally resolve the termination issue.
Finally, and most important, the last paragraph of the court's injunction sets forth in plain English what it was doing.
Stripped of citations, the only thing that paragraph does is to refuse to permit a stay of prospective relief to go into effect.
In substance, this means the injunction addresses the (e)(2) problem, not the (b)(2) problem.
Even though the question of the constitutionality of (b)(2) is not before this panel, it is presented in Berwanger v. Cottey , 178 F.3d 834 (7th Cir. 1999), which this court has also decided today.
In Berwanger , we join the overwhelming majority of our sister circuits and hold that 3626(b)(2) may be applied to existing consent decrees.
See, e.g. , Imprisoned Citizens Union v. Ridge , 169 F.3d 178 (3d Cir.1999); Tyler v. Murphy , 135 F.3d 594 (8th Cir.1998); Hadix v. Johnson , 133 F.3d 940 (6th Cir.1998); Dougan v. Singletary , 129 F.3d 1424 (11th Cir.1997); Inmates of Suffolk County Jail v. Rouse , 129 F.3d 649 (1st Cir.1997); Benjamin v. Jacobson , 172 F.3d 144 (2d Cir.1997) ( en banc ); Gavin v. Branstad , 122 F.3d 1081 (8th Cir.1997); Plyler v. Moore , 100 F.3d 365 (4th Cir.1996).
Cf. Taylor v. United States , 143 F.3d 1178 (9th Cir.1998) (finding 3626(b)(2) unconstitutional), opinion withdrawn and en banc rehearing granted, 158 F.3d 1059 (9th Cir.1998).
II That leaves the question whether the district court was empowered to enjoin the operation of 3626(e)(2) 's automatic stay, and if it was not, whether that subsection is constitutional.
Bearing in mind that we should try to avoid constitutional questions if we can, we address the question of statutory interpretation first.
The only other court of appeals to have considered the scope and constitutionality of (e)(2) is the Sixth Circuit, in its opinion in Hadix v. Johnson , 144 F.3d 925 (6th Cir.1998).
That court concluded that if (e)(2) were read to mean what it apparently says--that is, as a legislative command that a stay of prospective relief occurs as a matter of law no later than 90 days after the state's petition is filed, and that this legislative stay continues in effect until the findings required by (b)(3) have been made--then it would be "an unconstitutional incursion by Congress into the powers reserved for the Judiciary."
Id. at 937 .
In order to avoid a finding of unconstitutionality, the court chose to adopt the position that the Justice Department had urged and concluded that the courts "retain the power to suspend the automatic stay in accordance with general equitable principles."
Id. By that, the Sixth Circuit meant that the automatic stay of (e)(2) could itself be stayed by a court using the traditional standards for issuing a preliminary injunction.
Id. at 945 .
While the decisions of the district courts do not create binding precedents (particularly not those within the Sixth Circuit, which are now bound by Hadix ), it is nevertheless noteworthy that a number of judges have agreed with the Sixth Circuit that subpart (e)(2) is unconstitutional if it is a legislative stay, but they have not agreed that the statute can be saved by a narrowing interpretation.
See United States v. Michigan , 989 F.Supp.
853 (W.D.Mich.1996); Glover v. Johnson , 957 F.Supp.
110 (E.D.Mich.1997); Hadix v. Johnson , 933 F.Supp.
1362 (W.D.Mich.1996) (Enslen, C.J.
); Hadix v. Johnson , 933 F.Supp.
1360 (E.D.Mich.1996) (Feikens, J.).
The question is one of first impression in this circuit, and we have benefitted from the careful consideration that our colleagues on the federal bench have devoted to it.
We are well aware of the rule requiring courts to construe statutes consistently with the Constitution, if the language will bear any such construction.
Edward J. DeBartolo Corp. v. Florida Gulf Coast Bldg. & Constr. Trades Council , 485 U.S. 568, 575 , 108 S.Ct. 1392 , 99 L.Ed.2d 645 (1988), citing Hooper v. California , 155 U.S. 648, 657 , 15 S.Ct. 207 , 39 L.Ed. 297 (1895); N.L.R.B.
v. Catholic Bishop of Chicago , 440 U.S. 490, 500 , 99 S.Ct. 1313 , 59 L.Ed.2d 533 (1979).
But the qualification that the language must be able to bear the constitutional interpretation is an important one.
Courts cannot redraft statutes so that they read the way Congress might have written them, or should have written them.
Instead, we must taken the laws as they are given to us and work with them.
As was the case before the Sixth Circuit, three different views of (e)(2) have been urged on us: the prisoners argue that it is unconstitutional on several grounds; the state defends its constitutionality as a mere regulation of procedure; and the United States is of the view that (e)(2) would be an unconstitutional violation of either the separation of powers doctrine or the prohibition against legislative suspension of a particular judgment if (e)(2) really required automatic stays.
The United States argues, however, that the automatic stay provision should be read to instruct a court reviewing prospective relief that the court should--but is not required to--stay the relief, an interpretation that avoids the constitutional flaws.
Before we delve too far into these points, we must decide which reading of subpart (e)(2) is correct: that of the prisoners and the state, on the one hand, or that of the United States, on the other.
If we agree with the Sixth Circuit that the (e)(2) stay is discretionary in the final analysis, then there would be no need to explore the constitutional issues further.
The statute would be reduced to something that placed the burden of moving for a stay or preliminary injunction on the prisoners rather than the state, but once the issue was before the court the normal equitable considerations would determine whether existing decree provisions remained in place pending a decision on a termination petition, or if they should be modified.
1 Subpart (e)(4) of the statute would in addition make it clear that appellate review under 28 U.S.C. 1292(a)(1) was available no matter what the court called its order "staying, suspending, delaying, or barring the operation of the automatic stay described in paragraph (2) " Although we have the highest regard for our Sixth Circuit colleagues and the concerns that motivated them to adopt the Justice Department's view of (e)(2) , we cannot agree that the language of that subpart can be pushed this far.
First, Congress used unequivocal words when it drafted (e)(2) .
A motion to modify or terminate prospective relief made under part (b) shall operate as a stay.
Congress specified that the stay would be automatic .
Finally, it specified not only a clear starting point, but also the ending point for the stay.
Even though we do not lightly assume that Congress meant to restrict the equitable powers of the federal courts, we find it impossible to read this language as doing anything less than that.
Recognizing that it was hard to find internal support for its reading within (e)(2) alone, the Sixth Circuit relied in part on the fact that (e)(4) makes orders staying or otherwise barring the automatic stay automatically appealable.
Hadix , 144 F.3d at 936 .
Why would Congress have included this in the statute, they reasoned, if it did not anticipate that courts would continue to have the power to issue equitable relief against the stay?
In our view, there is an answer to that question.
The drafters of the PLRA realized that they were skating close to the line in (e)(2) , and they wanted to ensure that the issue that is now before us could be resolved in an interlocutory appeal.
The fact that a district court's effort to stay the (e)(2) stay can be appealed says nothing about what an appellate court must do once it has the case. Congress undoubtedly hoped that the appellate courts would reject these district court efforts and enforce the regime that (e)(2) sets up.
That, however, is possible only if (e)(2) as we believe it must be read is constitutional, and so we now turn to that question.
The state (which as we said agrees with our reading of the statute) has defended (e)(2) as nothing more than the establishment of a procedure that assures prompt review of prospective injunctive relief in prison litigation.
All the prisoners need do, the state asserts, is to come forward with evidence before the 30th day (or the 90th day, if the court grants an extension of time) showing that conditions at the prison require continuation of some or all of the prospective injunctive relief.
In other words, the prisoners must make a complete showing on the merits of the termination petition, the state must complete its rebuttal of that showing, and the court must make its ruling, all within the 90-day period.
The state analogizes (e)(2) to the 10-day limit on TROs found in Fed.R.Civ.P. 65(b) , to the five-day limit on TROs under the Norris-LaGuardia Act, 29 U.S.C. 107 , and to the automatic stay in bankruptcy cases, 11 U.S.C. 362 .
There are important differences, however, between the automatic stay of (e)(2) and the statutes on which the state relies.
Both the 10-day limit on TROs found in Rule 65(b) and the analogous limit in the Norris-LaGuardia Act respond to the particular problems of ex parte proceedings.
Nothing in those laws purports to restrict the power of the district court to enter a preliminary injunction that preserves the status quo beyond the period of time allowed.
The automatic stay in bankruptcy also does not help the state's case--indeed, if anything it undermines it.
This is because the automatic stay of 362 , which is triggered by the filing of a petition in bankruptcy, see 11 U.S.C. 362(a) , has the effect of preserving the court's equitable powers over the entirety of the bankruptcy estate, not superseding or undermining them.
In essence, it freezes everything external to the bankruptcy proceeding, including private transactions and state court litigation, and it has the effect of requiring other federal court proceedings to take a back seat to the federal bankruptcy court.
Furthermore, litigants routinely petition the bankruptcy court to modify the stay, and there is no hint that Congress did not want the court to exercise that power (as there is with the PLRA).
Allocations of power within the federal court system are a common feature of procedural legislation, and principles of federal supremacy account for the effect that the automatic stay has on state court proceedings.
The automatic stay of (e)(2) , in contrast, operates directly on the internal adjudication of a case in federal court.
It strips from the court the authority to decide whether the status quo (defined by the earlier decree the court entered that required prospective relief) should be continued or modified pending the court's decision on the immediate termination petition.
It does so in a way that leaves the power to continue the decree entirely in the hands of the party that files the motion for termination.
This is so because the automatic stay must take effect no later than the 90th day after the petition is filed unless the court has issued a final order on the termination motion.
Yet the state need only drag its feet or confront genuine difficulty in responding to requests for information that is relevant to the question whether the decree continues to be necessary, as defined by (b)(2) and (b)(3) , in order to win its stay.
Given the complexity of much prison litigation, we would be reluctant to try to address the problem of delay through satellite litigation over whether the state was "really" acting in bad faith or not, and imposing adverse fact-findings on a state that was trying to manipulate the process so that it won an automatic stay.
We are also concerned that such an approach would once again read too much into the statute.
Section 3626 constrains the authority of the district courts to impose and sustain prospective relief.
It says nothing about conscripting states into this process, and we see nothing in the overall tenor of 3626 that would justify superimposing on it a rule that a state risks the denial of its motion for termination on the merits if it does not (or cannot) comply with the (e)(2) time limits.
We do not suggest that Congress cannot prescribe rules of practice and procedure for the federal courts, and, contrary to the dissent's dire predictions, nothing in this opinion in any way threatens the ordinary time limits that pervade both federal procedural rules and statutes.
First, it is plain that Congress has the power to prescribe procedural rules.
See Hanna v. Plumer , 380 U.S. 460, 472 , 85 S.Ct. 1136 , 14 L.Ed.2d 8 (1965); Sibbach v. Wilson & Co. , 312 U.S. 1, 9 , 61 S.Ct. 422 , 85 L.Ed. 479 (1941).
Many time limits are subject to adjustment, and thus are irrelevant for present purposes.
Some both define the jurisdiction of a court and establish when a judgment is final, such as the time for filing an appeal from a final judgment, Fed.R.App.P.
4(a) , (b) , or the time within which a motion to correct a sentence must be filed, Fed.R.Crim.P.
35(c) .
But that is not what (e)(2) does, and it is important to appreciate just how unusual a provision it is.
As the Sixth Circuit also recognized, temporal strictures upon substantive judicial decision making are scarce.
Hadix , 144 F.3d at 943-44 n. 15.
Where such rules and statutes tie a judicial outcome to a time restriction, the court usually retains discretion to override the restriction for good cause.
Id. For example, the Speedy Trial Act sets forth time limits for criminal trials, including a requirement that if the Act's deadlines are violated, the charges must be dismissed.
See 18 U.S.C. 3161 ; see also United States v. Brainer , 691 F.2d 691, 695-99 (4th Cir.1982) (upholding the Speedy Trial Act against a challenge that the Act violates the doctrine of separation of powers).
Unlike 3626(e)(2) , however, the Act contains a long list of exceptions, see 18 U.S.C. 3161(h) , including a broad provision that authorizes judges to exclude from the time calculations "any period of delay" upon "finding[ ] that the ends of justice served by taking such action outweigh the best interest of the public and the defendant in a speedy trial."
18 U.S.C. 3161(h)(8)(A) .
See also Fed.R.Civ.P. 60(b) (authorizing courts "upon such terms as are just" to relieve a party from a final judgment, including a judgment for prospective relief).
Similarly, the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act ("AEDPA") states that "[t]he Court of Appeals shall grant or deny the authorization to file a second or successive application [for a writ of habeas corpus] not later than 30 days after the filing of the motion."
28 U.S.C. 2244(b)(3)(D) .
For many of the same reasons that animate us today, however, the courts of appeals have ruled that this time limit may be modified if the court finds it necessary.
See, e.g. , In re Siggers , 132 F.3d 333, 336 (6th Cir.1997) (reading the language of 2244(b)(3) as "hortatory or advisory rather than mandatory," in order to avoid constitutional difficulties); Galtieri v. United States , 128 F.3d 33, 36-37 (2d Cir.1997) (ruling that 2244(b)(3) must be applied "flexibly," and concluding that the courts should not forego "reasoned adjudication" in the small number of cases that cannot be resolved within 30 days): In re Vial , 115 F.3d 1192, 1194 n. 3 (4th Cir.1997) (noting that the court exceeded the 30-day limit but concluding that the importance of the issue justified the delay).
As we noted earlier, this is precisely the kind of flexibility that we believe is foreclosed to the courts under the language of 3626(e)(2) .
2 The fact that Congress can impose time limits on executive agencies is of little assistance here.
Unlike temporal limitations on judicial decision making, such constraints on agency action are prevalent throughout administrative law.
See, e.g. , 7 U.S.C. 2a(iv)(II) (setting a 30-day time limit for Security and Exchange Commission's review of a board of trade's application for designation as a contract market).
Where agencies are involved, the judgments subject to legislative encroachment were not rendered by Article III courts but by entities that the Constitution places under the control of Congress.
The distinction between those two situations motivated the Court's ruling in Paramino Lumber Co. v. Marshall , 309 U.S. 370 , 60 S.Ct. 600 , 84 L.Ed. 814 (1940), cited with approval in Plaut v. Spendthrift Farm, Inc. , 514 U.S. 211, 232 , 115 S.Ct. 1447 , 131 L.Ed.2d 328 (1995), where it upheld a private bill that reopened an administrative order, noting that the order was not an adjudication and therefore the legislative act did not constitute "an excursion of Congress into the judicial function" or "affect[ ] judicial judgments."
309 U.S. at 381 & n. 15, 60 S.Ct. 600 .
Last, we think there is an important difference between legislation that affects prospective relief, and legislation that prevents the court from preserving the status quo in whole or in part during the pendency of a suit.
The former is permissible, as Plaut observed, but the latter touches upon the heart of the adjudicative process and as such is reserved for the Judicial Branch of government--a point on which we now elaborate.
The prisoners have urged that (e)(2) violates Article III and the separation of powers principle, as well as the due process clause, and thus that it must be declared unconstitutional.
Such a finding would not have any effect on the remainder of the PLRA, because Congress included an express severability clause in the statute.
See Pub.L.
No. 104-134, Title I, 101(a), Apr. 26, 1996, 110 Stat. 1321-77, renumbered Title I, Pub.L.
No. 104-140, 1(a), May 2, 1996, 110 Stat. 1327.
We conclude, as did our colleagues in the Sixth Circuit when they analyzed the statute according to the reading we have adopted, that (e)(2) violates the separation of powers principle because it is a direct legislative suspension of a court order.
See Hadix , 144 F.3d at 939 .
Because we believe that (e)(2) represents an unconstitutional legislative encroachment into the powers reserved to the judiciary, we do not need to reach the prisoners' due process arguments.
Under the Supreme Court's decision in Plaut , we know that Congress cannot vest review of the decisions of Article III courts in officials of the executive branch.
See 514 U.S. at 218 , 115 S.Ct. 1447 , citing Hayburn's Case , 2 U.S. (2 Dall.)
408 , 1 L.Ed. 436 (1792), and Chicago & Southern Air Lines, Inc. v. Waterman S.S. Corp. , 333 U.S. 103 , 68 S.Ct. 431 , 92 L.Ed. 568 (1948).
The Sixth Circuit found, and we agree, that there is no principle under which the legislative branch should enjoy a privilege of reviewing particular decisions of Article III courts that the executive branch does not have.
See Hadix , 144 F.3d at 940 .
As the Supreme Court explained in Plaut , "the Framers crafted [Article III] with an expressed understanding that it gives the Federal Judiciary the power, not merely to rule on cases, but to decide them, subject to review only by superior courts in the Article III hierarchy."
514 U.S. at 218-19 , 115 S.Ct. 1447 .
Yet (e)(2) places the power to review judicial decisions outside of the judiciary: it is a self-executing legislative determination that a specific decree of a federal court--here the decree addressing conditions at Pendleton--must be set aside at least for a period of time, no matter what the equities, no matter what the urgency of keeping it in place.
This amounts to an unconstitutional intrusion on the power of the courts to adjudicate cases.
Unlike the Sixth Circuit, we also find that (e)(2) violates the principle articulated in United States v. Klein , 80 U.S. (13 Wall.)
128 , 20 L.Ed. 519 (1871).
In Klein , Congress passed a statute providing that individuals whose property was seized during the Civil War could recover the property by showing that they had not offered "aid or comfort" to the enemy during the war.
Klein , 80 U.S. at 131 .
The Supreme Court subsequently held that a presidential pardon was a sufficient showing that an individual was not a Confederate sympathizer.
Reacting to this decision, Congress adopted legislation that required the court to consider a presidential pardon as conclusive evidence of the person's disloyalty to the United States and to dismiss appeals in cases seeking to recover the property of such persons.
The Klein Court struck down this law, holding that Congress does not have the power to impose a rule of decision for pending judicial cases, apart from its power to change the underlying applicable law.
Applying Klein to 18 U.S.C. 3626(e)(2) , the Sixth Circuit focused on the broader remedial provisions of the PLRA and found that the automatic stay did not mandate a rule of decision.
Hadix , 144 F.3d at 940 .
The PLRA simply confined the relief that may be ordered in a prison conditions case to measures strictly designed to address violations of federal law.
Id.
But, as we have been emphasizing, (e)(2) does not directly implicate the final decision on the merits of the (b)(2) termination motion.
Instead, it addresses what should happen during the pendency of the case. For that time period, the statute does mandate a particular rule of decision: the prospective relief must be terminated.
In our view, this falls comfortably within the rule of Klein , and as such, it exceeds the power of the legislative branch.
Our determination that the automatic stay provision is not enforceable does not mean that courts should not try to conform their conduct to it.
Indeed, the contrary is true: we hold that the district courts must conform their actions to the time limits in 3626(e)(2) unless compelling reasons for setting them aside can be articulated.
On an interlocutory appeal under 3626(e)(4) , this court has the power to require either prompt action or a stay of prospective relief by finding that a recalcitrant judge has abused her discretion.
In passing the PLRA, Congress sought to quell the perceived tendency of federal courts to micro-manage state prisons by limiting the availability of consent decrees and other judicially-imposed prospective relief.
See H.R.Rep.
No. 21, 104th Cong., 1st Sess.
9 (1995) (noting that federal courts have "used these consent decrees to intrude into a state criminal justice system and seriously undermine the ability of the local justice system to dispense any true justice").
The PLRA accomplishes this goal, in part, by "includ[ing] provisions that will guard against court-ordered [remedies] dragging on and on, with nothing but the whims of federal judges sustaining them."
H.R.Rep.
No. 21, at 8.
It may be, however, that in some cases the courts will not be able to carry out their adjudicative function in a responsible way within the time limits imposed by (e)(2) .
See Hadix , 144 F.3d at 944 .
Given the command of the PLRA to tailor relief to the least restrictive alternative, and to take every step to ensure that an injunction does not stray beyond the requirements of federal law, the district courts will have a complex task on their hands.
Some decrees under review will have been the result of years of litigation, and in considering whether termination is proper under 3626(b)(2) , or whether newly tailored relief should continue under 3626(b)(3) , the court may need not only to review a massive record, but also to take new evidence.
In many other cases, like this one, the decree will be the result of a settlement between the parties and the record may be far too scant to make the required determinations.
See generally Rufo v. Inmates of Suffolk County Jail , 502 U.S. 367, 378 , 112 S.Ct. 748 , 116 L.Ed.2d 867 (1992) (holding that a Fed.R.Civ.P. 60(b) motion may be used to seek modification of a consent decree).
The court will have the obligation to supplement the record so that its final orders comply with the statute, and both sides will have the right to present argument on this point.
Even though Congress has the power to regulate the jurisdiction of the inferior federal courts, Keene Corp. v. United States , 508 U.S. 200, 207 , 113 S.Ct. 2035 , 124 L.Ed.2d 118 (1993), citing Finley v. United States , 490 U.S. 545, 548 , 109 S.Ct. 2003 , 104 L.Ed.2d 593 (1989), under Klein it cannot take away the power of the court in a particular case to preserve the status quo while it ponders these weighty questions.
This conclusion makes it unnecessary for us to reach the alternate constitutional grounds on which the prisoners have relied.
We emphasize again that our ruling is a narrow one.
It does not prevent the state from asking that the prospective relief be stayed while an immediate termination motion is pending.
Furthermore, in Berwanger this court has upheld the constitutionality of the heart of this part of the PLRA, which is the (b)(2) right to immediate termination.
Here, we hold only that 18 U.S.C. 3626(e)(2) is unconstitutional insofar as it is a legislatively commanded, self-executing stay of an existing court order that requires remedies in a prison conditions case. The district judge did not abuse his discretion at the time he issued his order refusing to stay prospective relief in this case, while he considered the state's petition for immediate termination of the decree governing the Pendleton Correctional Facility.
3 On the understanding that the PLRA requires the district court to take every possible measure to expedite its final ruling on the state's motion, and if need be to reconsider the propriety of an interim stay, the order of the district court is AFFIRMED.
