 ORDER AND AMENDED OPINION ORDER The opinion filed August 8, 2002, 298 F.3d 1107 , is amended as follows: On slip opinion page 11556, just before the summary paragraph, add the following two paragraphs: In its petition for rehearing, the IRS asserts that the Seventh Circuit has held that the IRS can bring suit against individual partners, and obtain a judgment against them, for as long as the tax obligations remain a valid debt of the partnership, citing United States v. Wright , 57 F.3d 561 (7th Cir.1995).
Wright is distinguishable because, in that case, the IRS had assessed both the partnership (Empire Wood Company) and the individual partners.
United States v. Wright , 868 F.Supp.
1070, 1071 & n. 1 (S.D.Ind.1994).
Those assessments extended to six years the statute of limitations with respect to both the partnership and the partners.
By contrast, here, no assessment was made against the individual partners.
Subsequently, the Empire Wood partnership filed for bankruptcy protection and entered a period of reorganization, thus tolling of the statute of limitations as to the partnership.
Wright , 57 F.3d at 562 .
See 26 U.S.C. 6503(h) (tolling the statute of limitations during the period in which the Bankruptcy Code prohibits the government from pursuing a collection action).
More than six years after the initial tax assessment but before the end of the limitations period applicable to the partnership, the IRS brought an action against the individual partners to collect the unpaid taxes.
Wright , 57 F.3d at 562-63 .
The partners argued that, although an action against the partnership would have been timely, the statute of limitations had expired as to them because it had not been tolled during the period of the partnership's bankruptcy.
Id.
Accordingly, the only relevant question in Wright was whether the statute of limitations applicable to the partners should be tolled while the limitations period was tolled with respect to the partnership.
The Seventh Circuit therefore had no opportunity to address the question before us.
With this amendment, the panel has voted to deny the petition for rehearing.
Judges Kleinfeld and Graber have voted to deny the petition for rehearing en banc, and Judge Bolton has so recommended.
The full court has been advised of the petition for rehearing en banc and no judge of the court has requested a vote on it.
The petition for rehearing and petition for rehearing en banc are DENIED.
No further petitions for rehearing or rehearing en banc may be filed.
