 OPINION WIDENER , Circuit Judge.
Elliot and Carol Archer appeal from the district court's order affirming the bankruptcy court.
The district court held that Arlene Warner's affirmative defense of settlement in a state suit, involving the same facts upon which rest the non-dischargeability claim at issue here, created a novation substituting a contract debt which was dischargeable for the tort claims which arguably were not.
For the following reasons, we affirm.
I. On May 22, 1992, Warner Manufacturing, Inc. and Leonard L. and Arlene Warner, his wife, the owners thereof, sold the corporate assets of Warner Manufacturing to a corporation formed by the Archers for a total of $685,000.
1 In late 1992, the Archers filed suit in Superior Court of Guilford County, North Carolina against Leonard Warner and Warner Manufacturing for fraudulent misrepresentation and like misconduct arising out of the sale.
An amended complaint, filed in the state court in March 1994, asserted fraud, misrepresentation, conspiracy, and fraudulent conveyance, among other claims, and added Arlene Warner and two other parties as named defendants.
On May 8, 1995, the Archers again amended their complaint to include intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress, and asserted that they had suffered mental and emotional distress, pain and suffering, and loss of enjoyment of life as a consequence of the Warners' alleged acts.
Three days later, on May 11, after extensive pre-trial discovery, the parties settled the state court litigation.
The settlement consisted of an agreement, an addendum to the agreement, two releases, a promissory note, and two deeds of trust.
The settlement agreement provided that the Archers would receive $300,000, consisting of a $200,000 cash payment which was paid, and a $100,000 promissory note to be paid in two installments over the next year.
The agreement stated that the willingness of the Archers to resolve the case stemmed from both the non-taxable nature of a part of the consideration for the settlement and the numerous defenses asserted by the Warners.
An addendum to the settlement agreement specified that the agreement would be declared null and void if the criminal charges pending against Leonard Warner were not dismissed by the State of North Carolina.
The promissory note, from Leonard and Arlene Warner and Hosiery Industries, Inc., was secured by two deeds of trust--one on the Warners' home and another on business property owned by Hosiery Industries, Inc. The Warners received both a general and mutual release of all pending and future claims by the Archers.
Specifically, the general release stated the Archers "do hereby release and forever discharge the [Warners] from the beginning of the world to the date of this release arising out of or relating to the matter of the litigation in Guilford County Superior Court, File No. 92-CVS-7777 " In both releases, neither party admitted liability or wrongdoing; moreover, specific clauses stated that the payment of money should not be construed as an admission of liability.
There was no mention of bankruptcy in the settlement package.
On November 11, 1995, the first payment on the $100,000 promissory note became due.
When the Warners defaulted on this payment, the Archers sued in Superior Court in Guilford County on December 4, 1995.
2 The suit was for collection on the note.
On February 5, 1996, while this collection suit was still pending, Leonard and Arlene Warner filed for relief under Chapter 13 of the Bankruptcy Code, which was converted to a case under Chapter 7 on October 29, 1996.
The present dispute originated on January 29, 1997 when the Archers filed an adversary proceeding in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of North Carolina, seeking a judgment for the amount due under the promissory note and a determination that such indebtedness was non-dischargeable under Section 523(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. 523(a) .
As grounds for asserting the non-dischargeability of this indebtedness, the Archers incorporated by reference in the bankruptcy adversary complaint the multiple allegations contained in their suit in the state court.
3 These were the only grounds there stated for asserting non-dischargeability.
4 Defendant Arlene Warner denied any misconduct on her part and asserted an affirmative defense of settlement of the original state court suit.
5 She argued that the Archers may not rely upon the same alleged misconduct in the original suit in the state court as grounds for non-dischargeability because that suit was settled in toto .
On August 24, 1999 the bankruptcy court had ordered the trial bifurcated, first hearing issues on what it called the affirmative defense.
6 On August 26, 1999 the case was tried on the affirmative defense of the dischargeability action.
The bankruptcy court decided in favor of Mrs. Warner, upholding her affirmative defense.
The Archers appealed this decision contending that the bankruptcy court misinterpreted the exception to dischargeability under 11 U.S.C. 523(a)(2)(A) .
The district court affirmed the bankruptcy court's decision.
It concluded that the releases and settlement agreement created a novation, substituting a dischargeable contract debt for a fraud-based tort claim which may not have been dischargeable.
The district court continued by holding that the argument of fraud-in-the-inducement of the settlement agreement was not properly before the court because such claim was not presented to or decided by the bankruptcy court.
Nevertheless, the district court commented that any successful fraud-in-the-inducement contention must establish that Mrs. Warner planned all along to file bankruptcy to escape her contractual settlement commitments with the Archers.
The district court doubted such a plan because the Warners had ready paid $200,000 in cash pursuant to the settlement agreement, and had given deeds of trust on real estate to secure the payment of the note as well.
In any event, because of the novation which we affirm, see infra , and our opinion that the Archers have not shown an abuse of discretion by the bankruptcy court in its refusal to permit the amendment to the adversary com plaint, that is a contention upon which we express no opinion.
II.
We have jurisdiction to hear this case under 28 U.S.C. 158(d) .
This court "reviews the judgment of a district court sitting in review of a bankruptcy court de novo, applying the same standards of review that were applied in the district court."
In Re Biondo , 180 F.3d 126, 130 (4th Cir.1999).
7 Specifically, we review the factual findings of the bankruptcy court for clear error, while we review questions of law de novo.
In Re Biondo , 180 F.3d at 130 .
The pertinent bankruptcy code, 11 U.S.C. 523 , provides: 523 section 727 1141 1228(a) 1228(b) 1328(b) The issue we address is whether the district court erred in determining that a prepetition settlement of claims involving the same claims pursued here, alleged fraud or intentional tort, extinguished the Archers' subsequent non-dischargeability claims under Section 523(a)(2) (A) when Mrs. Warner filed for bankruptcy relief without having paid the settlement promissory note.
As noted by the district court, there is a split among the circuits concerning this issue.
Under one line of cases, a settlement agreement does not distinguish a dischargeability claim under Section 523(a) .
See United States v. Spicer , 57 F.3d 1152 (D.C.Cir.1995); Greenberg v. Schools , 711 F.2d 152 (11th Cir.1983).
According to this line of cases, examining the underlying fraudulent allegations leading to the settlement agreement best effectuates Congressional policy by its construction of the statutes as not permitting the discharge of debts that Congress intended to survive bankruptcy.
Greenberg v. Schools , 711 F.2d 152 (11th Cir.1983).
The opposing line of cases favors the basic principle of encouraging settlements by way of freedom to enter into settlement agreements, regardless of the nature of the claim subject to the settlement agreement.
See In re Fischer , 116 F.3d 388 (9th Cir.1997); In re West , 22 F.3d 775 (7th Cir.1994); Maryland Casualty Co. v. Cushing , 171 F.2d 257 (7th Cir.1948).
Under this theory, parties willing to settle disputes over fraud, misrepresentation, or like tort claims may do so by way of settlement through contract, and such contractual claims are then dischargeable in bankruptcy.
Otherwise, the incentive to settle is gone.
We agree with the district court and the bankruptcy court that the better reasoned decisions are those of the Seventh and Ninth Circuits rather than those of the District of Columbia and Eleventh Circuits.
So we follow West , Md.
Casualty , and Fischer .
We are of opinion that Congress did not intend that 11 U.S.C. 523(a) be construed, as a reversal here would require, so as to discourage the settlement of claims because they might be subject to freedom from discharge under 523(a) .
When following the novation theory, 8 the terms of the settlement should be examined to determine whether the non-dischargeability claims under Section 523(a)(2) (A) were released.
The Archers would have us hold that courts must determine whether the underlying factual basis for the settlement agreement consisted of fraud; however, under the novation theory, courts need only address the validity and completeness of the bargained for agreement and release.
We review these factual issues for clear error.
The settlement package, consisting of the settlement agreement with addendum, two releases, a promissory note, and two deeds of trust, completely released Arlene Warner from potential non-dischargeability claims under Section 523(a)(2) (A).
The settlement agreement referred explicitly to the general and mutual releases.
The general release further announced the complete waiver of all pending and future related personal claims against Arlene Warner.
It provides that the Archers This release continued by specifying the claims released: As noted in West , "A promissory note does not discharge the underlying obligation unless the parties expressly release the old and substitute the new."
West , 22 F.3d at 778 .
The settlement agreement and promissory note here, coupled with the broad language of the release, completely addressed and released each and every underlying state law claim.
We therefore follow Fischer , West , and Md.
Casualty and affirm the judgment of the district court that the prepetition settlement of claims involving alleged fraud and intentional tort extinguished the Archers' subsequent non-dischargeability claim under Section 523(a) when Mrs. Warner filed for bankruptcy relief without having paid the entire amount of the settlement.
The judgment of the district court is accordingly AFFIRMED .
