 EVANS , Circuit Judge.
Respondent has greatly narrowed the controverted issues by conceding the interstate character of the business transacted by it, the jurisdiction of petitioner over it, and the existence of a labor dispute such as falls within the purview of the National Labor Relations Act.
It squarely meets the fact issue and unequivocally denies that it ever engaged in unfair labor practices.
As a result, the sole question before us is the sufficiency of the evidence to support the findings of the examiner which were approved by the Board.
In short, we are to ascertain whether respondent engaged in unfair labor practices such as are condemned in section 8 (1) and (2).
Specifically we are asked to determine whether the evidence supported the finding that (1) respondent interfered with, restrained, or coerced its employees in the exercise of their right to self-organize, to form, join or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing, or to engage in concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or in mutual aid or protection or that (2) respondent attempted to dominate or interfere with the formation or administration of a labor organization in which its employees, or some of them, were members or about to become members.
The quantum of proof necessary to sustain a finding by the Board was defined in the recent decision of National Labor Relations Board, Petitioner, v. Columbian Enameling & Stamping Co., Inc., Respondent , 59 S.Ct. 501 , 83 L.Ed. , decided February 27, 1939.
There, it was said: " Section 10 (e) of the Act provides: ' The findings of the Board as to the facts, if supported by evidence, shall be conclusive.'
But as has often been pointed out, this, as in the case of other findings by administrative bodies, means evidence which is substantial, that is, affording a substantial basis of fact from which the fact in issue can be reasonably inferred.
Substantial evidence is more than a scintilla, and must do more than create a suspicion of the existence of the fact to be established.
'It means such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion,' Consolidated Edison Co. of New York v. National Labor Relations Board , supra, 59 S.Ct. 217 [ 83 L.Ed. ], and it must be enough to justify, if the trial were to a jury, a refusal to direct a verdict when the conclusion sought to be drawn from it is one of fact for the jury."
The pronouncement of the test to be applied by a reviewing court to ascertain whether a finding by the National Labor Relations Board "is supported by the evidence" appears in another late case, decided December 5, 1938, Consolidated Edison Co. of New York v. National Labor Relations Board , 59 S.Ct. 206, 216 , 83 L.Ed. .
There, the court said: " The companies contend that the Circuit Court of Appeals [2 Cir., 95 F.2d 390 ] misconceived its power to review the findings and, instead of searching the record to see if they were sustained by 'substantial' evidence, merely considered whether the record was 'wholly barren of evidence' to support them.
We agree that the statute, in providing that 'the findings of the Board as to the facts, if supported by evidence, shall be conclusive,' section 10(e) , 29 U.S.C.A. 160(e) , means supported by substantial evidence.
Washington, Virginia & Maryland Coach Co. v. National Labor Relations Board , 301 U.S. 142, 147 , 57 S.Ct. 648, 650 , 81 L.Ed. 965 .
Substantial evidence is more than a mere scintilla.
It means such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.
Appalachian Electric Power Co. v. National Labor Relations Board , 4 Cir., 93 F.2d 985, 989 ; National Labor Relations Board v. Thompson Products , 6 Cir., 97 F.2d 13, 15 ; Ballston-Stillwater Knitting Co. v. National Labor Relations Board , 2 Cir., 98 F.2d 758, 760 .
We do not think that the Circuit Court of Appeals intended to apply a different test.
In saying that the record was not 'wholly barren of evidence' to sustain the finding of discrimination, we think that the court referred to substantial evidence.
Ballston-Stillwater Knitting Co. v. National Labor Relations Board , supra .
"The companies urge that the Board received 'remote hearsay' and 'mere rumor.'
The statute provides that 'the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law and equity shall not be controlling.'
The obvious purpose of this and similar provisions is to free administrative boards from the compulsion of technical rules so that the mere admission of matter which would be deemed incompetent in judicial proceedings would not invalidate the administrative order.
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baird , 194 U.S. 25, 44 , 24 S.Ct. 563, 568 , 48 L.Ed. 860 ; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co. , 227 U.S. 88, 93 , 33 S.Ct. 185, 187 , 57 L.Ed. 431 ; United States v. Abilene & Southern Ry. Co. , 265 U.S. 274, 288 , 44 S.Ct. 565, 569 , 68 L.Ed. 1016 ; Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States , 280 U.S. 420, 442 , 50 S.Ct. 220, 225 , 74 L.Ed. 524 .
But this assurance of a desirable flexibility in administrative procedure does not go so far as to justify orders without a basis in evidence having rational probative force.
Mere uncorroborated hearsay or rumor does not constitute substantial evidence."
The substance of the Board's findings is set forth in the margin.
2 In support of the finding petitioner relies on the following alleged acts by respondent's managerial forces as indicative of an intent to prevent the free exercise of the employees' right to organize for collective bargaining.
1.
Respondent's hostility to outside labor organizations.
2.
Respondent's action in anticipating state and national legislation by creating a Works Council, an employee organization, which it controlled through the appointment of its chairman and secretary.
Its control and domination of this inside labor organization were manifested by warnings to the employees by the personnel manager that no employee was to vote for "any outsider."
On one occasion when this direction was ignored, a second election was ordered and employees told "not to waste their time" on outsiders as all ballots for them would be destroyed.
The employees were also notified that the company would not bargain with an outsider.
The structure and functioning of the Works Council demonstrated its continuance would violate section 8 (2) after such legislation was enacted.
3.
The dissolution of the Works Council was used by respondent as a means of entrenching the Independent as its successor.
4.
Respondent used an offer of wage increase as a lever to discourage connection with outside organizations.
Supporting this assertion petitioner points to a statement by the vice-president, made on the occasion of the dissolution of the Works Council, that a general increase scheduled for June 1 would be advanced to May 1, presumptively for the purpose of preventing an outside organization--the C. I. O. or the A. F. of L.--from organizing the company's employees.
This alleged reference to the C. I. O. and A. F. of L. is denied by Falk.
5.
The management took the initiative in organizing and launching the Independent after learning that the Works Council could no longer be maintained.
6.
In promoting and organizing the Independent, respondent played a dominating part; the personnel manager actively participated in arranging for the meeting, distributing notices thereof; his activities and attitude as disclosed by a statement that he believed it was the business of the company to see to the notification of employees of the meeting for the purpose of organization of the Independent; the superintendents and foremen caused or "saw to it" that employees attended the meeting and gave the employees to understand that the Independent had the backing or approval of the company.
7.
The meeting of April 12 was held upon the company's grounds.
At the meeting to ascertain whether the Independent should be organized to take the place of the Council, the management announced that it would advance the date of the increase in wages if the employees immediately joined the Independent.
The advance from June 1 to May 1 as the effective date of increase in wages was inconsistent with the management's previous assertion that the prices for the new orders would go into effect June 1.
8.
Respondent selected an attorney who thereafter was more solicitous of respondent's wishes than he was of the welfare of the employees.
9.
Respondent paid the organizers their regular hourly wage for the time spent at the meetings leading up to the organization of the Independent as well as for the time spent in conferences with Burke, the attorney selected by respondent.
It is true that later these amounts were deducted from the organizers' pay on advice of counsel for the respondent, but not until after the Independent was organized and recognized by respondent as the sole bargaining agent.
Failure to inform the employees of the selection of Burke by the management indicated an intent to conceal.
10.
Respondent's recognition of Independent as exclusive agent without ascertaining whether it represented the majority and its refusal to bargain with an outside union that claimed to represent a majority.
Respondent used its influence to overcome a majority of the Engineers who had previously requested recognition as representatives of the men employed in the power house.
The management consistently made known its preference for the Independent and assisted in distributing cards, and the supervisory staff consistently resorted to action which would indicate hostility to unions and in particular to outside unions.
The foregoing constitutes the basis of the Board's findings.
The examiner believed the charges to be true.
So did the Board.
We are satisfied that some of these charges were explained satisfactorily by the respondent.
Others, standing alone, afford no support for the Board's conclusions, if true.
For example, we are convinced that respondent was innocent of any intention to influence action when it permitted the use of its premises as a meeting place of its employees.
Moreover, it corrected its action in paying members of the committee who were perfecting the organization of the Independent during working hours, after it learned that such payments might be construed as an act of preference towards Independent.
This deduction from the employees' wage was after the organization had been perfected, but it impresses us as indicative of fair treatment of employees who were losing time attending meetings preliminary to organizing a union.
It indicates the respondent was anxious to comply with the letter and the spirit of the law.
We fail to find in these payments of a few hours' committee work any evidence of attempted domination of employees' choice of union.
Likewise, we can see nothing to criticize in Mr. Falk's action expressing a preference for a local over an outside union.
Especially is this true, where the employee asks the employer for advice.
There is much evidence in this record which is indicative of a very wholesome cooperative spirit existing between management and employees.
Surely, it is desirable and bespeaks the confidence of employees in the management to have the old employees ask the executive officer of the employer to express his views and his labor union preference.
On the other hand, the position of the employer is a most delicate one.
Surely, he has the right to his views.
And the right to entertain views is rather valueless if it be not accompanied by the right to express them.
And this right to express his views is clearer when they are expressed in response to an interrogatory by one of his employees.
And yet, the voice of authority may, by tone inflection, as well as by the substance of the words uttered, provoke fear and awe quite as readily as it may bespeak fatherly advice.
The position of the employer, where, as here, there is present, genuine and sincere respect and regard, carries such weight and influence that his words may be coercive when they would not be so if the relation of master and servant did not exist.
It must be understood that we are not the fact-finding body.
Review of a discretionary order of an administrative body is quite different from the court's exercise of discretion in the first instance.
Our duty is to ascertain whether there is substantial evidence to support the charges found by the Board.
We are satisfied that such evidence appears in the record.
Not only does it appear, but taken as a whole it rather conclusively points to the findings made by the Board.
If certain testimony be accepted as true, and we are not prepared to reject it, the conclusion is inescapable that respondent was and is strongly and outspokenly opposed to a closed shop; that it earnestly endeavored to prevent the unionizing of its employees and when the inevitable became imminent, it sought to dominate the formation, organization, and activities of the union least objectionable to it.
It thereby interfered with the employees' free right to self-organization which is in violation of section 8(1) and (2).
Respecting the right of the employee to unionize and to be free of employer influence in so doing, Congress has spoken and the court has sustained the legislation.
The language of the court has put at rest any doubt which respondent may have previously entertained.
It said ( National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp. , 301 U.S. 1, 33 , 57 S.Ct. 615, 622 , 81 L.Ed. 893 , 108 A.L.R. 1352): "Employees have as clear a right to organize and select their representatives for lawful purposes as the respondent has to organize its business and select its own officers and agents.
Discrimination and coercion to prevent the free exercise of the right of employees to self-organization and representation is a proper subject for condemnation by competent legislative authority."
The court further said (page 42, 57 S.Ct. page 626 ): "Experience has abundantly demonstrated that the recognition of the right of employees to self-organization and to have representatives of their own choosing for the purpose of collective bargaining is often an essential condition of industrial peace.
Refusal to confer and negotiate has been one of the most prolific causes of strife.
This is such an outstanding fact in the history of labor disturbances that it is a proper subject of judicial notice and requires no citation of instances.
The opinion in the case of Virginian Railway Co. v. System Federation No. 40 , supra [ 300 U.S. 515 , 57 S.Ct. 592 , 81 L.Ed. 789 ], points out that, in the case of carriers, experience has shown that before the amendment, of 1934, of the Railway Labor Act [ 45 U.S.C.A. 151 et seq.]
'when there was no dispute as to the organizations authorized to represent the employees, and when there was a willingness of the employer to meet such representative for a discussion of their grievances, amicable adjustment of differences had generally followed and strikes had been avoided.'
That, on the other hand, 'a prolific source of dispute had been the maintenance by the railroads of company unions and the denial by railway management of the authority of representatives chosen by their employees.'"
Order to Post Notices .
The Board ordered the respondent to post notices for thirty days, stating that it "will cease and desist" doing the acts prohibited by the order, and that it has withdrawn all recognition of the Independent Union as the representative of its employees for the purpose of dealing with it.
Objection is made to this order on the ground that it is compelling the respondent to make a public admission of guilt.
In support of its requested modification of the Board's order, respondent cites National Labor Relations Board v. Abell Co. , 4 Cir., 97 F.2d 951, 958 , where the court relieved the employer from that part of the order which required the posting of such a notice.
We are convinced however that this case can not serve us as precedent, but that in a matter of this kind, each decision must rest upon the facts of the individual case.
It is argued that the posting of such a notice containing a statement that it will cease and desist from prohibited actions in the future implies that respondent has indulged in such practices in the past.
We differ with the Fourth Circuit's conclusion in that we do not draw the inference from an enforced compliance with an order which required the employer to state it " will cease and desist" from enumerated practices, that it is thus making an admission, voluntary or involuntary, that it has in the past been guilty of such practices.
The purpose of the notice is to convey to the employees the knowledge of a guarantee of an unhampered right in the future to determine their own labor affiliation.
The very fact that the company resists the enforcement of the "cease and desist" order is evidence not of admission or acquiescence in a determination of guilt, but of a contrary belief on the part of the employer.
The factual controversy having been settled officially and judicially, the losing party submits and as a good loser complies with the terms fixed by the order of the fact finder.
It not only should submit to the finding of the arbiter, it must do so. That is the logic of the situation.
Moreover, the findings are against the respondent.
The final order disposing of any case must be on the basis of the determinative findings, not on an attempt to mollify the losing party.
It is hardly necessary for us to observe that our opinion is not to be construed as denying to the employee the right to organize or join an independent union as readily as an organized union.
The employees must be perfectly free at all times, and this means in the future , to select the union they prefer.
We conclude that the order of the Board is valid and that its petition for enforcement should be, and is hereby, granted.
