 MILLER , Associate Justice.
The Associated Broadcasters, Inc., appellant in No. 7282, is licensed to operate a radio station known by the call letters KSFO in the City of San Francisco, California.
Desiring to assign its radio station license to Columbia Broadcasting System of California, Inc., appellant in No. 7283, Associated joined with Columbia in filing an application with the Federal Communications Commission, seeking the consent of the latter--pursuant to Section 310 (b) of [**207] the Communications Act 1 --for the voluntary assignment of its license.
The application was heard and denied by the Commission.
From its order, effective October 24, 1938, Associated and Columbia filed separate appeals.
The Commission moved to dismiss each appeal on the ground that Section 402(b) gives this court no jurisdiction to entertain them. 2 The motions were argued together and will be considered together.
If Columbia had filed an application for a station license, requesting therein the same facilities as are now enjoyed by Station KSFO, denial of the application would, without question, have brought the applicant within the language of Section 402(b) .
The practical result of the Commission's contention, then, is that by arranging for an assignment, frankly revealing the arrangement to the Commission, and complying in every possible way with the statutory requirements governing assignments, 3 Columbia has deprived itself of a right of judicial review, which it would clearly have possessed if its application had been an outright request for the facilities of another station.
This is not a sensible result and could not have been the intention of the statute.
In Pote v. Federal Radio Comm., 4 a case involving circumstances similar in many respects to those involved in No. 7283, this court decided that a transferee who applied for an assignment of a radio station license had no right of appeal from an order of the Commission denying his application.
In No. 7282 the applicant is the transferor and hence the Pote case is clearly distinguishable on that ground.
And it is distinguishable, also, from No. 7283 in at least one important respect.
In the Pote case the right of appeal was considered in the light of Section 12 of the Radio Act, 5 while here it must be considered in the light of Section 310(b) of the Communications Act, which contains significant language not contained in Section 12 of the Radio Act, as indicated by italics in the following quotation: "The station license required hereby, the frequencies authorized to be used by the licensee, and the rights therein granted shall not be transferred, assigned, or in any manner either voluntarily or involuntarily disposed of, or indirectly by transfer of control of any corporation holding such license, to any person, unless the Commission shall, after securing full information, decide that said transfer is in the public interest , and shall give its consent in writing."
Whatever may have been the proper interpretation of the old Section 12 , and however justified may have been the decision in the Pote case, it is clear that the Communications Act, as now phrased, contemplates an application, a hearing, if necessary, and a decision upon the basis of public interest, just as much in the case of an application for the transfer of an outstanding station license as in the case of an application for a proposed new station license.
Moreover, the one application comes just as clearly within the contemplation of Section 402(b) as the other.
It follows that Columbia is an applicant for a radio station license whose application has been refused by the Commission and who, consequently, may appeal to this court under the provisions of Section 402(b) (1) .
It follows, further, that Associated is a person who, under the provisions [**208] of Section 402(b) (2) , may invoke the jurisdiction of this court to determine whether it has been aggrieved, or its interests adversely affected, by the decision of the Commission, refusing the application of Columbia.
Whether it may come also within the terms of Section 402(b) (1) is unnecessary for us to determine.
This court has jurisdiction to hear both appeals.
The motions to dismiss, therefore, must be denied.
It is contended that as the Communications Act, 6 which was adopted after the decision in the Pote case, failed to make express provision for appeal from a refusal of an application for transfer of a station license, the rule of statutory construction is applicable, that where a statute is reenacted--after either an administrative or a judicial construction thereof--that fact constitutes evidence of Congressional intent to incorporate such construction into the reenactment.
This, however, is not a conclusive presumption.
As the Supreme Court has said, one decision construing an act does not approach the dignity of a well-settled interpretation. 7 And it has also said: "'A custom of the Department, however long continued by successive officers, must yield to the positive language of the statute.'"
8 In our view--especially because of the language added to the statute as enacted in 1934--the presumption should not be indulged in this case. To the extent that the decision in the Pote case may be in conflict with these conclusions, it is overruled.
Motions to dismiss denied.
