 WILBUR , Circuit Judge.
These two petitions to review decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals were consolidated for hearing and involve income taxes for the years 1933, 1934 and 1935.
The facts are not in dispute.
The Marlborough Investment Company, a corporation, issued its bonds aggregating $500,000, secured by a trust deed on an apartment building known as Marlborough House and personal property therein.
Defaults occurred in the payment of principal and interest; the principal sum of $453,000 was unpaid.
Shortly thereafter holders of these bonds amounting to $441,000 deposited their holdings with a committee under an agreement which gave it broad powers for working out and executing a plan for protecting their interests.
Acting under this authority the committee caused the trustee to begin foreclosure proceedings upon the trust deed, formed a new corporation known as Marlborough House, Inc., to take over the property, gathered in an outstanding third party interest to clear the title, purchased the property at the foreclosure sale through a trustee or agent, and finally caused it to be conveyed by the purchaser to the new corporation in exchange for all of its stock.
The purchase price at the foreclosure sale was $340,425.
This was paid partly in cash in the amount of $10,025, but mainly by the bonds deposited with the committee.
Although the face value of these bonds was $441,000 their market value and the cash paid did not together exceed the purchase price.
Under a stipulation made during the pendency of the foreclosure proceedings possession was taken by an agent on behalf of the respondent Bondholders Committee on July 1, 1933, although the foreclosure sale did not occur until September 30, 1933.
The agent managed Marlborough House on the Committee's account from the time of taking possession until November 20, 1933.
The Committee made no return upon the income earned during this period; but, the Commissioner, holding that the Bondholders Committee while operating the property was an association taxable as a corporation upon income derived from such operation, made a deficiency assessment against it in the amount of $1,498.02 and added a penalty of 25%, amounting to $374.51, the whole assessment being $1872.53.
The Committee appealed from his determination to the Board of Tax Appeals.
The Board decided that there had been an over-assessment and that the deficiency amounted to but $136.45 with a corresponding 25% penalty of $34.11, a total of $170.56.
From this decision appeal No. 9603 has been taken by the Commissioner.
Appeal No. 9603 concerns the income tax of the respondent Marlborough House, Inc., for the taxable period November 21, 1933, to December 31, 1933, and for the years 1934 and 1935 upon income derived from the operation of Marlborough House by the corporation after the transfer to it by the Bondholders Committee.
The petitioner assessed a deficiency against respondent of $245.33 for 1933, of $441.76 for 1934, and of $1,120 for 1935.
Upon appeal by the respondent the Board of Tax Appeals decided that there had been an overpayment of $10.79 for the year 1933, of $1,070.68 for 1934 and no deficiency for 1935.
From this decision the Commissioner appealed.
The parties are agreed that their conflicting contentions as to the amount of income tax properly chargeable to each respondent on account of its operation of Marlborough House arise from their adoption of different bases for calculating the depreciation of the operating property.
The petitioner held that the transactions whereby the Bondholders Committee first acquired the property and then transferred it to Marlborough House, Inc., did not amount to a tax-free reorganization within any of the exceptions recognized in 112 of the Revenue Act of 1932, 26 U.S.C.A. Int.Rev.Acts, page 511.
He further held that therefore the true basis for calculating depreciation was, according to 113, 114, of the Act, 26 U.S.C.A. Int.Rev.Acts, pages 514, 519, the amount bid at the time of acquisition of the property by the Bondholders Committee at the foreclosure sale on September 20, 1933.
The Board, on the other hand, held that there was such a tax-free reorganization under 112 of the said Act and, accordingly, that the true basis for calculating depreciation was, under 113, 114, the original cost to Marlborough Investment Company.
One of the errors assigned by the petitioner is that the Board erred in finding that the various steps taken by the Bondholders Committee were in pursuance of a plan of reorganization.
It may be assumed that if all that happened was a series of unrelated and unplanned happenings there would have been no such corporate reorganization as that recognized by 112, Revenue Act of 1932, which seems clearly to contemplate action taken in pursuance of some definite plan.
But this point has not been pressed and, as pointed out by the Board of Tax Appeals, what was done followed so closely a common practice in similar cases that the existence of a plan may well have been inferred by the Board.
In holding that there was such a reorganization the Board of Tax Appeals relied mainly upon Commissioner v. Kitselman , 7 Cir., 89 F.2d 458 , certiorari denied Kitselman v. Helvering , 302 U.S. 709 , 58 S.Ct. 29 , 82 L.Ed. 548 , and Commissioner v. Newberry Lumber & Chemical Co. , 6 Cir., 94 F.2d 447 .
In the Kitselman and Newberry cases, as in the case at bar, the bondholders of an insolvent corporation, upon the surrender and exchange of their bonds, became the stockholders of a new corporation, to which, in accordance with a previously adopted plan, the assets of the old corporation purchased by the bondholders had been transferred by them.
In the Kitselman case the court recognized that to effect a reorganization within the terms of 112 of the Revenue Act of 1928, 26 U.S.C.A. Int.Rev.Acts, page 377, as construed by the Supreme Court in G. & K. Mfg. Co. v. Helvering , 296 U.S. 389 , 56 S.Ct. 276 , 80 L.Ed. 291 , there must be a "continuity of interest of the transferor or its stockholders in the transferee", [ 89 F.2d 460 ] but, the court, notwithstanding the elimination of the stockholders of the transferror corporation, saw the requisite continuity in that corporation's bondholders.
The court said, in part: "Although the instant situation is rather novel in the aspect that neither the stockholders nor corporation participated in any way in the plan whereby the mortgage was foreclosed, the new company formed, and assets transferred to the committee and by it to the new company, we believe a statutory reorganization was effected.
The only reason the stockholders did not participate in the plan was that their stock represented no assets and was valueless, and therefore they were without right to speak.
In re 620 Church Street Corporation , 299 U.S. 24, 27 , 57 S.Ct. 88 , 81 L.Ed. .
"Bondholders are ordinarily viewed merely as auditors, but when the assets of the corporation are less than its obligations, the bondholders are in actuality and for all practical purposes pretty much the corporation."
It will be noted that the passage quoted assumes a controlling analogy between a reorganization under 77B, 11 U.S.C.A. 207 of the Bankruptcy Act, which was before the court in In re 620 Church Street Corporation , supra , and a reorganization within the exception recognized by 112, 113, of the Revenue Act of 1932.
But the validity of that assumption is open to serious doubt.
The purpose of the reorganization contemplated in the Bankruptcy Act is the preservation of the bankrupt's property both for him and his creditors.
When, as in the Church Street Corporation case, supra , the stockholders' equitable interest has disappeared owing to the insolvency of the corporation, reorganization may still be advantageous to the creditors and therefore within the policy of the Bankruptcy Act.
On the other hand, the obvious purpose of 112 of the Revenue Act of 1932 is to impose a tax upon a gain, or allow a deduction for a loss, upon the sale or exchange of property.
But, to enable corporations or their stockholders to change the form or manner of conducting their business without being held to have transferred the business itself they are permitted under 112, to make a tax-free reorganization.
When, however, the corporation loses its property and the interest of the stockholders has been wiped out, as in the case at bar, the reorganization cannot effect the purpose of the exception.
The petitioner contends that these cases relied upon by the respondents have been in effect overruled by LeTulle v. Scofield, Collector , 308 U.S. 415 , 60 S.Ct. 313 , 84 L.Ed. 355 .
The facts in that case were in substance as follows: Le Tulle owned all the stock of a solvent irrigation company.
A tri-party contract was made between him, the irrigation company and a solvent water company, whereby he undertook to obtain certain properties and convey them to the irrigation company and the latter agreed to convey thereafter all of its assets to the water company, for which the latter was to pay, and accordingly did pay, $50,000 in cash and $750,000 in its bonds.
Subsequently, all of the assets of the irrigation company, consisting then of cash and bonds, were turned over to Le Tulle as a dividend, after which he caused the dissolution of the irrigation company.
The irrigation company reported no gain on account of the cash and bonds received by it from the water company and Le Tulle reported no gain on account of the dividend received by him from the irrigation company.
The Commissioner assessed to Le Tulle additional income taxes on account of both transactions.
Le Tulle contended that this was a tax-free reorganization within the purview of 112, Revenue Act of 1932; the Commissioner contended that there was merely a sale by the irrigation company to the water company for bonds and cash, followed by a dividend to Le Tulle.
The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, 103 F.2d 20 , which had agreed with the Commissioner, and held that there had not been a tax-free reorganization.
The requisite continuity of interest was lacking.
There is an obvious factual difference between the Le Tulle case and those relied upon by respondents.
Commissioner v. Kitselman , supra ; Commissioner v. Newberry L. & C. Co. , supra .
In the former the sole stockholder of one corporation, whose assets he causes to be transferred to another corporation, becomes the bondholding creditor of that other.
In each of the other cases bondholders of one corporation, whose assets they caused to be transferred to another corporation emerge as a stockholder of the other corporation.
But there is an equally obvious similarity.
In each case all of the assets of one corporation are transferred to another.
In each case the transferor corporation, along with its stockholders, loses all of its interest in the property transferred.
But respondent contends that there is a further factual and decisive difference between the Le Tulle case, on the one hand, and the Kitselman and Newberry cases, on the other.
It is pointed out that in the Le Tulle case there was no insolvent corporation; whereas in those cases, as in the instant case, the bondholders succeeded to the proprietary interest of the stockholders, so that, when the transfer occurred, their interest, though undergoing a change in form, was in substance continuous, thus satisfying the statute.
In deciding the Le Tulle case the Supreme Court was not unaware of either the Kitselman or Newberry case. While mentioning both without express approval or disapproval, the opinion used language broad enough to overrule both cases on principle, as clearly appears from the following excerpt [ 308 U.S. 415 , 60 S.Ct. 316 , 84 L.Ed. 355 ]: "Where the consideration is wholly in the transferee's bonds, or part cash and part such bonds, we think it cannot be said that the transferor retains any proprietary interest in the enterprise.
On the contrary, he becomes a creditor of the transferee; and we do not think that the fact referred to by the Circuit Court of Appeals, that the bonds were secured solely by the assets transferred and that, upon default, the bondholder would retake only the property sold, changes his status from that of a creditor to one having a proprietary stake, within the purview of the statute."
That this principle should be regarded as generally applicable in all cases in which the continuity of interest requisite for a reorganization within the terms of 112, Revenue Act of 1932 is in question, seems fairly inferable from the decision in Helvering v. Tyng , 308 U.S. 527 , 60 S.Ct. 378 , 84 L.Ed. 445 .
The facts in that case, so far as here material, were substantially as follows.
Barstow and Co., a corporation, owned a controlling interest in the stock of General Gas & Electric Corporation; but a controlling interest in the stock of Barstow & Co., was in turn owned by Barstow Securities Corporation, a majority of whose voting stock was owned by Tyng and associates.
In pursuance of a plan whereby Associated Gas & Electric Co., another corporation, sought to obtain, and did obtain, a controlling interest in the stock of General Gas & Electric.
Tyng and associates sold their stock in Securities to Associated, receiving therefor cash, bonds and debentures.
The Commissioner held that the transaction was not a reorganization within the meaning of 112(i) (1), 26 U.S.C.A. 112, 26 U.S.C.A. Int.Rev.Acts, page 379, included the value of the obligations of Associated received by taxpayer Tyng and associates in their gross income for 1929, and determined certain tax deficiencies upon that basis.
The Board of Tax Appeals held that the transaction was such a reorganization and reduced the deficiencies accordingly.
The Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit held that the Board was right in holding that the transaction was a reorganization rather than a sale.
In reaching its decision the court relied in part upon the Kitselman and Newberry cases, supra , upon which respondents chiefly rely in the cases at bar, endeavoring to distinguish them from the Le Tulle case. The Supreme Court granted certiorari and reversed the judgment upon the authority of Le Tulle v. Scofield , supra , thus holding that there was no continuity of interest.
Reversed.
