 BAZELON , Circuit Judge.
This is an appeal from an order of the Federal Communications Commission granting the license application of the Easton Publishing Company for the assignment of a standard radio station at Easton, Pennsylvania, and denying that of Allentown Broadcasting Corporation for the same assignment at Allentown, [**355] Pennsylvania, 14 miles away. 1 It marks the third appearance of these parties before this court since their mutually exclusive applications were filed in 1945.
2 When the Easton Company first appealed to this court from a June 1947 order of the Commission awarding the license to the Allentown applicant, we remanded the case "for findings upon the comparative needs of the two communities for new radio service and the relative abilities of the applicants to serve the greater need."
3 In February 1950, the Commission, rejecting a joint request for a final decision without further hearings, set aside the prior grant to Allentown, and reopened the record.
4 In March 1950, both applicants petitioned this court for writs of mandamus and prohibition directing the Commission to make a finding on the existing record.
These petitions were denied on October 23, 1950, 5 and in March 1951, hearings in the reopened proceedings were commenced by the Commission.
Pursuant to our mandate, the Hearing Examiner made findings as to the comparative needs of the two communities, and the relative abilities of the applicants to serve the greater need.
On the question of community need, the Hearing Examiner noted, inter alia , that Easton had only one standard broadcast station, whereas Allentown had three in addition to the one being operated by appellant under temporary authority of the Commission.
6 But in applying 307(b) of the Communications Act of 1934, 7 which requires the Commission to provide a "fair, efficient and equitable distribution of radio service *," the Examiner also noted that Allentown had a population about three times that of Easton, and was growing at about four times the rate of Easton.
8 She concluded that the "over-all evidence" showed a greater need for additional service in Allentown.
For this reason, and because she viewed the record as casting grave doubt upon the reliability of the Easton applicant, 9 her Initial Decision recommended a grant to the Allentown company.
The Commission in the order now challenged reversed the finding of a greater need in Allentown, and set aside various findings reflecting adversely on the ability shown by the Easton applicant to serve its community's need.
It found that both applicants proposed well-balanced program service, that slight differences between the two with respect to equipment, management and the like, fairly well canceled out, 10 and that "considered separately" in terms of need for additional service of the type proposed by the applicants, "there is little room [**356] for choice between the two communities."
11 In those circumstances of what it regarded as closely balanced community needs and applicant abilities, the Commission found the following to be the "decisive factor" in compelling a grant of the additional facility to Easton: This "choice of local service" principle is a gloss on 307(b) of the Communications Act of 1934, supra.
It was first applied by the Commission in Northwestern Ohio Broadcasting Corp., 12 upon the crucial findings that the choice between the two communities was "indeed a difficult one," 13 and that both applicants "propose[d] to render meritorious program services designed to meet the needs of the respective communities *."
14 Since we affirmed on appeal because there was "no error in the record," 15 our approval of the "choice of local service" principle was limited to its application in circumstances of otherwise approximately equivalent community need and applicant ability to serve such need.
Although in the present case the Commission purported to find such equivalence, we think there is no substantial evidence in the record as a whole--including the Hearing Examiner's Initial Decision--to support the essential underlying finding that the ability of the applicants to serve their respective communities was about equal. 16 Hence, we hold the Commission's error is fatal to the order under review and requires that the case be remanded for reconsideration by the Commission.
We discuss three phases of the record which compel us to this view.
They are: (1) Uncertainty as to programming plans; (2) Reluctance, evasiveness and lack of candor; and (3) Monopoly and concentration of communications media.
(1) Uncertainty as to programming plans .
At the 1946 hearing, the Easton applicant indicated that it would acquire a network affiliation if at all possible, and its proposed program schedule at that time included a number of network programs.
But at the 1951 hearing, its proposed program schedule contained no network programs, and no mention was made of possible network affiliation on direct examination.
On cross-examination, however, the general manager of Easton, first flatly denied any present intention to affiliate, 17 then spoke of a " [**357] remote possibility that sometime in the indefinite future we might affiliate," 18 and, finally, admitted that if licensed, "we would probably explore the possibility" and if a desirable network affiliation were available would take affirmative steps to secure it.
19 Although it is plain from this testimony that a network affiliation was contemplated, the Easton applicant, as the Hearing Examiner pointed out, offered no testimony as to "what programs now proposed would be scrapped to make way for network programs."
Without such information, the Commission could not reasonably reach a conclusion in favor of the Easton Company on one of the crucial issues before it, namely, the Easton Company's ability to provide a choice of "locally originating programs."
(2) Reluctance, evasiveness, and lack of candor .
The Hearing Examiner concluded that Easton's principal witnesses were reluctant, evasive, and had "not made frank, candid and honest disclosures *."
Although this conclusion was based in large part upon an evaluation of the demeanor, bearing, delivery, etc., of the Easton witnesses who appeared before the Examiner, 20 the Commission felt obligated to make an independent evaluation of the evidence because "the Examiner's findings were primarily based on her evaluation of testimony by one witness rather than on her judgment as to the credibility of different witnesses who make contradictory statements *."
We cannot agree that the Examiner's findings are entitled to any less weight than findings [**358] which resolve a conflict between witnesses.
Both involve a determination based upon an evaluation of the witnesses' demeanor, bearing and delivery; and it has been specifically held that the uncontradicted testimony of a single witness may be rejected on the basis of such factors, and that this is a judgment best made by the trier of fact who "had the witnesses before it *."
21 The Commission, after independently examining the cold record, reversed the Examiner's findings and concluded that the testimony in question "properly viewed, gives an overall appearance of consistency, candor and straightforwardness."
22 But as Judge Learned Hand recently observed, " we are not to be reluctant to insist that an examiner's findings on veracity must not be overruled without a very substantial preponderance in the testimony as recorded."
23 We briefly describe certain matters appearing in the cold record which convince us that there is no such substantial preponderance in the present testimony.
(a) In connection with the question of a network affiliation, the Easton witness, as noted earlier, first spoke of the "remote possibility in the indefinite future" of a network affiliation, but later, under prodding, conceded that Easton would act affirmatively to acquire one if licensed.
(b) On direct examination, the President of the Easton Publishing Company testified that in addition to the Easton Express , which his company published, dailies published in Allentown, Bethlehem, Bangor (Pennsylvania), Newark, Plainfield (New Jersey), New York City, and Philadelphia circulated in the Easton area.
On cross-examination it developed that the combined Easton area circulation of the Allentown and Bethlehem dailies was around 500, compared to 44,400 for the Express .
We think the Examiner rightly concluded that the witness sought to create the misleading impression that his newspaper had substantial competition from the Allentown and Bethlehem dailies.
24 It cannot be said that the evasiveness and lack of candor of Easton's witnesses related to matters of little consequence, for the Easton Company's monopoly position and the provision of locally-originating rather than network programs were issues of paramount importance in the proceedings before the Commission.
In any event, as the Supreme Court has made clear, the importance of the matters concealed, obscured or evaded [**359] 25 (3).
Monopoly and concentration of communications media .
The Easton applicant publishes the only newspaper in Easton.
It is the licensee of one of two FM radio stations, and of the only television station in that community.
Such concentration of communications media has been viewed by the Commission as contrary to the public interest, 26 and this court has upheld that view.
27 Although recognizing that diversification of news sources is a "public interest" factor, the Commission did not find it controlling here because (a) Easton's newspaper and radio operations would be "substantially separate"; and (b) there was no evidence that Easton had used its newspaper ownership "to attempt to obtain a monopoly over news sources *, or otherwise in a manner not in the public interest."
At the hearing the general manager of the proposed Easton station, an employee of the Easton Publishing Company for 16 years, testified that he was assigned to "this phase of the Easton Publishing Company activities" because for many years he had thought "that a radio station would be a very, very valuable complement to our newspaper activities *."
He also testified that "accounting and everything like that" for the FM station currently operated by the Easton applicant are handled by the Easton Express .
This scarcely portrays a picture of "substantially separate" operation.
There is no dispute that for twelve years, from 1936 to 1948, the Easton Express failed to carry the program logs for station WEST, the city's only standard broadcast station, although during that period it regularly carried the logs of the New York City network stations.
While the Commission did not approve this practice, it felt that the change of heart since 1948 was "some indication of the lack of an intention to freeze out WEST," and concluded "that the Easton Publishing Company is not disqualified to be a station licensee solely because of its newspaper ownership and activities."
Such conduct may, of course, be a highly significant factor, 28 particularly when the offending applicant already enjoys a formidable control over communications media in the community.
Whether the Commission considered this former practice in weighing the relative abilities of the competing applicants does not clearly appear from the record.
But even if it did, it apparently deemed such conduct inconclusive in light of its findings that (1) the radio and newspaper operations would be "substantially separate," (2) Easton had not equivocated regarding its network affiliation and programming plans, and (3) its witnesses had presented consistent, candid, and straight-forward testimony.
Since we hold these findings erroneous, the Commission must re-evaluate the effect of the Easton Company's news monopoly and its past conduct on the issue of the relative abilities of the two applicants to serve in the public interest.
Upon such re-evaluation, these factors may [**360] well assume a different and perhaps decisive importance.
Contrary to appellant's contention, we think the Commission did consider existing or authorized FM and television facilities in Easton as bearing upon the relative needs of the communities for an additional AM facility.
29 Since operations under the television authorization did not commence until after the hearing, there is nothing in the record to show the extent to which actual operation has affected the need for an additional AM outlet for local self-expression in Easton.
We are unwilling, however, in light of the protracted history of this controversy, to order a further hearing "to bring the record up to date *."
30 We have considered other contentions advanced by appellant and find them without merit.
Reversed and remanded for a redetermination in accordance with this opinion.
