 FRANK , Circuit Judge.
1.
We shall assume familiarity with the facts stated in our previous opinion, 2 Cir., 206 F.2d 897 , and in the opinion of the Supreme Court, 347 U.S. 260 , 74 S.Ct. 499 , 98 L.Ed. 681 .
We do stress one fact: The particular kind of discretionary relief sought by Accardi was suspension of deportation, pursuant to Section 19(c) of the Immigration Act of 1917, as amended in 1948, which, so far as pertinent, provides: 2.
Printed in the Appendix to this opinion are certain "public announcements" of the Attorney General, consisting of newspaper reports of interviews with him and of "press releases" issued by him.
They were not called to our attention on the previous appeal.
But they were submitted by the government to the Supreme Court.
Apparently the Supreme Court took judicial notice of them, since it referred to and relied upon them in its opinion.
These data were received in evidence at the subsequent trial and are now in the record before us.
They are significant because of the following portions of the Supreme Court's opinion [ 347 U.S. 260 , 74 S.Ct. 503 ]: 3.
The government contends that, reasonably construed, those published utterances of the Attorney General could mean no more than that the hearings of persons included in his "program" should be "expedited."
The government, explicitly and repeatedly, advanced that same contention in its brief in the Supreme Court.
1 It seems obvious that the Supreme Court rejected it.
4.
If more were needed as to the meaning of the Attorney General's statements and "releases," we now have the testimony of the then Attorney General, McGranery, which amply supports the Supreme Court's interpretation. 2 We must take it, then, that the Attorney General's clearly stated intention was to deport anyone named by the Attorney General as within his program.
5.
We read the Supreme Court's opinion as holding this: (a) The Attorney General's statements, reported in the press and in his press releases, "clearly reveal that the Attorney General did not regard the listing as a mere preliminary to investigation and deportation," but, "to the contrary," showed that "those listed were persons whom the Attorney General 'planned to deport.'"
(b) Accardi is entitled to a new hearing before the Board--of the kind described by the Supreme Court--if at a trial in the district court he can prove that 6.
The evidence leaves no doubt that Accardi was so named.
7.
Was the Board informed of this fact?
The trial judge so found, stating: "In accordance with the practice in such cases, notice was given to the Board that Accardi was an alien embraced within the Attorney General's program."
He made this finding, despite the oral testimony of the Board's Chairman that, previous to the Board's decision, he had no such knowledge.
As this finding has support in the deposition-testimony of one Board member, and as two other members, also testifying by deposition, said they could not remember whether or not they then had had such knowledge, we see no reason why we should not accept that finding.
3 8.
This leaves but one issue of fact: Was a majority of the Board members influenced by that knowledge?
All the Board members testified they were not, because, they said, a notification from the Attorney General that any particular alien was within his "program" meant, to them, merely that the Attorney General desired an expeditious consideration and determination of that alien's case. The trial judge, on the basis of that testimony, found that such was the Board's understanding; 4 and he grounded his decision primarily on that finding, saying that he could see "no rational ground for disbelieving the witnesses" on that score.
This finding, based on that testimony, cannot stand up.
We accept it as a fact that the Board members consciously believed, when they testified, that the Attorney General's statements amounted to no more than a calendar order (i. e., a direction to give preference, merely in point of time, to consideration and decision of such cases), and that, beyond that, those statements did not have any effect on the Board's decisions.
But it is incredible, human nature being what it normally is, that the Attorney General's statements--as interpreted by the Supreme Court and the former Attorney General--did not unconsciously influence the Board members so that they felt obliged not to exercise their discretion and, without doing so, to decide against Accardi.
Any other finding involves reliance on so remarkable a degree of improbability as to be untenable.
Yet the rejection of the finding does not imply any challenge of the intelligence or integrity of the Board members.
One need not turn to the works of Freud and his disciples to learn that unconscious influences importantly affect the memory of honest men; such teachings will be found in the writings of Plato, Aristotle, Euripides, Dante, Montaigne, Shakespeare, Moliere, Pascal, Pope, Byron, Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes and his sagacious son, to say nothing of novels since Fielding to the present.
Indeed, the courts have long recognized that, stimulated by interest, pride or other motives, thoroughly honest and intelligent witnesses may tell unbelievable stories.
The books are full of comments like these: "No class of men know better than judges how much interest may unconsciously warp an honest mind."
4a "Our memories are easy, and ofttimes unconscious, slaves to our wills."
4b Accordingly, a court may discredit the testimony of a witness "without casting any shade of doubt upon his character."
4c "The statements of some are unconsciously affected by their wishes, hopes, or prejudices."
4d Judges have spoken of the "ease with which honest witnesses can persuade themselves that they remember some bygone circumstance which they are ingeniously induced to think that they remember"; 4e of "how extremely prone persons are to believe what they wish."
4f Because of interest, "very honest persons (such is the infirmity of our nature) often deceive themselves without being aware of it"; they "will often give false color to a transaction, without intending to speak falsely or to suppress the truth."
4g The judiciary has thus acknowledged the wisdom of the aphorism: "Memory says, 'I did this'; pride says, 'I could not have done it'; eventually pride wins."
The courts, too, have often held that a highly improbable story requires "strong corroboration," 4h and that "inherently improbable" testimony, not adequately explained, should be disregarded.
4j "The circumstances of a case may be such as to make" evidence "utterly incredible, although there are confident attestations in support of it," said Lord Stowell.
4k A court, remarked Judge Learned Hand, is not obliged to close its eyes "and assume a credulity which no sensible man can *."
4l Evidence, as to human conduct, contrary to common experience, will not be accepted.
4m The "eye of the law" will not "be blinded" by incredible statements, 4n statements "beyond the pale of credibility."
4p "The measure of proof required to establish any proposition must necessarily vary with its degree of probability", 4q and must be strong in proportion to the degree of improbability.
4r Pertinent here is the following: In its opinion, issued on April 3, 1953, the Board said: In a "press release" issued that same day, the Attorney General announced We have in mind, too, the Supreme Court's remarks that this Board is not an independent agency--like the Interstate Commerce Commission or the Securities and Exchange Commission--but a "non-statutory board composed of subordinates within a department headed by the individual who formulated, announced, and circulated such views of the pending proceedings" and that it "would be naive to expect such a heavy handed way of doing things" as an explicit order by the Attorney General to the Board to deny the discretionary relief of suspension of deportation to any alien designated by him.
We conclude, therefore, that the Board members, in deciding against Accardi's application for such discretionary relief--i. e., suspension of deportation--were controlled by what amounted to an order from their superior so to decide.
The trial judge's finding is "clearly erroneous," since, "although there is evidence to support it," we are "left with the definite and firm conviction that a mistake has been committed."
United States v. U. S. Gypsum Co. , 333 U.S. 364, 395 , 68 S.Ct. 525, 542 , 92 L.Ed. 746 ; United States v. Oregon State Medical Society , 343 U.S. 326, 339 , 72 S.Ct. 690 , 96 L.Ed. 978 ; McAllister v. United States , 348 U.S. 19 , 75 S.Ct. 6 .
9.
To round out the story, it should be noted that the government advances these arguments: (a) The Attorney General, under the regulations, may reverse any Board decision; therefore, says the government, it is absurd to believe that he gave the Board orders directing how they were to decide any particular cases.
The government made this same contention in its brief in the Supreme Court.
5 As this argument did not persuade that Court, we do not consider it.
(b) In several instances, says the government, the Board has granted discretionary relief to aliens whom the Attorney General had previously named as within the "program."
This argument, also the government made unpersuasively in its brief in the Supreme Court.
6 We may add that there is no evidence that, in those cases, the Attorney General had not withdrawn the names of those aliens from his "program before the Board decided in their favor."
Moreover, the Board's chairman significantly testified at the trial that, in every instance where a final decision has been rendered in a case within the "program," the alien was ordered to leave the country voluntarily or to be deported, and that none of such persons was granted suspension of deportation.
10.
The Attorney General, on April 23, 1954, a few days after the Supreme Court's decision came down, issued instructions that the Board should not be influenced in its decisions by his "program" but, in each case, should exercise independent judgment. 11.
Accardi must be released from custody unless, within a reasonable time, the Board, under those new instructions, holds a new hearing and renders a new decision on his application for discretionary relief.
7 Although the Board has already found that he has a good moral character, he should have the opportunity at the new hearing to offer evidence that he is not and never has been a racketeer.
For it may be that, in so characterizing Accardi, the Attorney General has confused him with someone else of the same name.
Reversed and remanded.
