 JAMES ALGER FEE , Circuit Judge.
This is a stockholders' derivative suit, which was brought ostensibly for the benefit of Warner Bros. Pictures, Inc., a Delaware corporation, by plaintiff Smith, as Special Administrator of the Estate of Edward S. Birn, deceased, owner of 400 shares of stock therein.
The corporation was joined as a defendant with two of its directors and another Delaware corporation, United States Pictures, Inc., along with one Sperling, a director of the latter.
The trial court directed that the questions relating to jurisdiction and limitations should be determined before trial on the merits.
Upon such a preliminary hearing, judgment of dismissal of the first cause of action was granted because, when the court realigned Warner Bros., as plaintiff, diversity of citizenship no longer existed, since Delaware corporations were, respectively, among the plaintiffs and among the defendants.
1 The second cause of action was dismissed for lack of equity.
This cause was asserted against defendants Harry M. Warner and Jack L. Warner alone, and is based upon alleged violations of their duties in a fiduciary capacity as directors of Warner Bros. A third cause of suit was dismissed upon stipulation by the parties.
The facts which were found upon the preliminary hearing were as follows: The record has been examined and gives no occasion for a reversal upon the facts found by the trial court.
Only two questions of law remain.
The trial court did not attempt to decide the cause on the merits, and this Court makes no such attempt either.
The key questions are: First.
Where the complaint asserted that the two directors Warner dominated and controlled the corporation Warner Bros. and conspired to misappropriate the assets and business opportunities of the corporation and caused it to enter an utterly improvident contract with United, was the trial court empowered to go behind the allegations and, on the facts found, realign Warner Bros. as a plaintiff?
Second.
Where United was a party served and appearing in the case and thus before the court, was it proper for the court to dismiss the second cause of action because United was not named in the second cause of action as a party against whom relief was sought therein?
The first question is answered by another.
This question is whether Doctor v. Harrington , 196 U.S. 579 , 25 S.Ct. 355 , 49 L.Ed. 606 , is indistinguishable from the case at bar.
If so, the trial court must be reversed as to the first cause of action.
In that case the complaint set up that Harrington and the individual defendant had the voting power of a majority of stock, directed the management of the affairs of the corporation, dictated its policy and selected its directors.
Without holding a hearing to determine the truth of such allegations, the trial court dismissed the bill for lack of jurisdiction.
The Supreme Court of the United States reversed on the ground that, accepting the allegations of the complaint, there was no ground to realign the parties since the corporation had been used as a tool without independent volition.
To like effect are Venner v. Great Northern Railway Company , 209 U.S. 24 , 28 S.Ct. 328 , 52 L.Ed. 666 , and Central Railroad Company of New Jersey v. Mills , 113 U.S. 249 , 5 S.Ct. 456 , 28 L.Ed. 949 .
It is hardly conceivable that the court in the Harrington case enjoined the trial court, on remand after the reversal therein, to entertain the action even though it should be discovered as a matter of fact that, contrary to allegation, the corporation was not under disabling domination.
Judicial power of the federal courts expires when lack of jurisdiction is uncovered at any stage of the proceedings.
In the case of Cutting v. Woodward , 9 Cir., 255 F. 633 , the court found after trial that a purported sale of assets to the president of the company had been the merest sham and that virtual control of a majority of the Board was exercised by the president.
Actual fraud was thus established by the finding.
Appellant cannot complain of divergence of facts found by the trial court here and a different court in a different suit.
The courts of the federal system are of special and limited jurisdiction.
The first inquiry in any of these tribunals must be directed to the end of discovering whether in fact the judge has the power to entertain and decide the controversy.
In the inferior federal courts, this inquiry must be directed to the statutes by which Congress has authorized and empowered them to act.
The preliminary proceeding by the court was thus proper.
In any event, Rule 42(b), Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, 28 U.S.C.A., permits the trial court to isolate any issue and try it first.
No jury trial was involved, so that question does not arise.
In the event that a trial had been held and the court had found that the corporation was not under domination, it would have been incumbent upon the court to dismiss upon the grounds of lack of jurisdiction.
The chances are that, if a trial had been held and the evidence failed to show domination, the determination would have been upon the merits.
This circumstance probably explains the lack of precedents.
It appears then that the only point of appellant is that the trial court passed upon the question of its jurisdiction at the outset.
Appellant would not have benefited by delay.
It must be held ever firmly in the field of view that the question is one of jurisdiction of the District Court.
It has consistently been held through the whole history of the federal judiciary that jurisdiction depends upon the facts.
If it be assumed that the appropriate allegations of jurisdiction appear in the pleadings and the cause has been fully tried and judgment entered, still, if the facts in the record do not show jurisdiction existed, the judgment must be set aside and the cause dismissed.
If the case has been affirmed and the lack of such facts is found by the Supreme Court of the United States, the result must be the same.
A great many of these cases have been decided upon the allegations of the pleadings.
If the appropriate allegations are made in the complaint to show the corporation under domination of the individual defendants and the corporation defends upon the same grounds and with the same lawyers as the individual defendants, it is apparent that a prima facie case is made.
But, when the trial is over, the court might well find that the corporation was never dominated, but was at all times a free and uncontrolled agency.
When such facts are established uncontrovertibly, jurisdiction is at an end and the parties must be realigned.
There seems to be no ground for saying, because no precedent appears in the books for the trial of these decisive questions at the threshold, it cannot be done.
Either jurisdiction subsists or it does not.
There is an absolute dichotomy.
If any doubt existed, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure now confirm the right of the court to try any issue separately and in advance of others.
It would be burdensome to the court and litigants if everyone were forced to accept allegations which all knew were false as a basis for jurisdiction and proceed to a long and expensive trial of the case, only to find by this arduous process that the allegations were untrue.
Allegations are extremely easy to write.
The tendency to abuse of stockholders' derivative actions is too well known to require comment.
Once the facts are found, as here, proper realignment must be made and jurisdiction does not exist.
The dismissal of the second cause of action gives us pause.
The ground of dismissal assigned by the trial court was "want of equity".
2 This ground was apparently based upon the failure of plaintiff to join United States Pictures, Inc., as a defendant in the second cause of action although it was a defendant in the first cause of action and its name appeared in the title.
The second cause of action was asserted against Harry M. Warner and Jack L. Warner, citizens of California, as directors and officers of Warner Bros. Pictures, Inc., a corporation of Delaware.
Since plaintiff was a resident and citizen of New York, realignment of Warner Bros., as a plaintiff, would not have destroyed jurisdiction.
The lack of equity seems to have been based upon the feeling that the cause could not have been completely disposed of without the presence of United States Pictures, Inc. 3 But the provisions of Rule 19(b), Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, may have been applicable.
There it is provided that the court in its discretion may proceed in the action without joining persons "who ought to be parties if complete relief is to be accorded between those already parties," if "their joinder would deprive the court of jurisdiction of the parties before it".
Now, "indispensable parties" are excluded from the provisions of this rule.
The trial court did indicate that United States Pictures, Inc., was an "indispensible party."
4 However, there is an apparent confusion in this statement.
It may be that the trial court considered the question of whether a claim was stated in the so-called "second cause of action" since a holding that United States Pictures, Inc., is an indispensable party may involve a ruling that this count does not state a justiciable claim against Harry M. Warner and Jack L. Warner.
But the trial court seemed to feel there were jurisdictional implications.
5 No opportunity to amend was given, which normally follows a ruling on motion to dismiss.
This Court does not rule upon the question of whether a claim could be stated against the directors for alleged breach of trust to their own profit, absent United States Pictures, Inc., if Warner Bros. were realigned.
6 It is doubtful whether the trial court ruled on the point, and we do not reach it.
We hold the trial court should have determined the legal sufficiency of the "second cause of action" against the Warners before proceeding to a determination of the status of the parties and the necessity of joining United States Pictures, Inc., and thus destroying jurisdiction.
7 Affirmed as to the first cause of action.
Reversed and remanded as to the second.
