 JONES , Circuit Judge.
The City of Thibodaux, Louisiana, supplied electric current to consumers within its territorial area.
It extended its boundaries and annexed an area which had been supplied with electric current by the Louisiana Power & Light Company.
The City brought a suit for expropriation in a Louisiana District Court against the power company seeking to acquire the electric distribution facilities situate in the annexed area.
The City asserted that the power to condemn had been granted by a legislative enactment of 1900 which provided: 101 Diversity of citizenship formed the basis for removal to the United States District Court.
The power company, among other things, alleged in its answer that it had a franchise to serve the area with electric current and that if the quoted statutory provision be so construed as to permit the expropriation of its property it would be unconstitutional and invalid as impairing the obligation of its franchise contract and the taking of its property without due process of law.
In addition to these questions arising under the Federal Constitution, the appellee asserted that the Louisiana statute violated four separate provisions of the Louisiana Constitution.
A pre-trial conference was held.
The district court concluded that since the statute had not been construed nor its validity passed upon by the Louisiana courts, the proceedings in Federal court should be stayed until a decision interpreting the Act by the Supreme Court of Louisiana could be obtained through the Louisiana Declaratory Judgment procedures.
City of Thibodaux v. Louisiana Power & Light Co. , D.C., 153 F.Supp.
515 .
By the district court's order further proceedings were stayed until the Supreme Court of Louisiana has been afforded an opportunity to interpret the Louisiana statute.
The City appealed from the stay order.
The power company has moved to dismiss the appeal on the ground that the order is not a final judgment and hence not appealable.
Under the Federal statute 1 only civil actions may be removed from a state to a Federal Court.
Although some state condemnation proceedings may not be, at every stage, removable civil actions, 2 the expropriation suit authorized by the Louisiana act is a controversy between parties which is to be submitted to a judicial tribunal for determination by an exercise of the judicial power.
Such proceeding is a civil action and so may be removed where, as here, diversity of citizenship and jurisdictional amount are present.
3 The question is raised as to whether the order is one from which an appeal can be taken.
The stay order of the district court is not a final decision under 28 U.S.C.A. 1291 .
4 Is it then an interlocutory order granting or denying an injunction which is appealable under 28 U.S.C.A. 1292 ?
It is not an injunction in form.
Whether or not it is injunctive is a question which is not without difficulty.
5 We think that the rule as it has been evolved is as has been thus stated: 1292(1) Council of Western Electric Technical Employees-National v. Western Electric Co. 238 F.2d 892, 894 6 The Supreme Court has had occasion to consider the nature of condemnation proceedings.
It has said: Kohl v. United States 91 U.S. 367 23 L.Ed. 449 7 The order entered by the district court granted a stay in an action at law and was an appealable order under 28 U.S.C.A. 1292(1) .
In an early and celebrated opinion by Chief Justice Marshall it was said: Cohens v. Commonwealth of Virginia 6 Wheat.
264, 404 5 L.Ed. 257 8 The doctrine announced in the foregoing quotation was applied in a suit for adjudication of heirship under state law A stay order to permit a determination of the issue in the state court was held improper.
McClellan v. Carland , 217 U.S. 268 , 30 S.Ct. 501 , 54 L.Ed. 762 .
Such was the general rule prior to Erie-Tompkins 9 and such has been the general rule since Erie-Tompkins.
10 This general rule, applicable in diversity cases, is not without exceptions.
In the case which is, perhaps, the leading and most often cited of the cases comprising the exceptions, Railroad Commission of Texas v. Pullman Co., 11 an injunction was sought to restrain the enforcement of an order of a state administrative body on the ground that the order was not authorized by the state law and was violative of the Federal Constitution.
The District Court granted the injunction.
The decree was reversed.
The Supreme Court held that the District Court should have stayed its hand, reserving its decision but retaining its jurisdiction until a proceeding for a determination of the state issues could be brought in a state court.
In an opinion by Mr. Justice Frankfurter, the Court noted its reluctance to decide constitutional questions and the indecisiveness of Federal determinations of questions of state law.
In such a situation, it was said: 312 U.S. 500 61 S.Ct. 645 Stressing the discretion vested in the courts in equitable causes and announcing the doctrine of abstention, the court observed that, 312 U.S. 501 61 S.Ct. 645 In other cases the staying of suits seeking injunctions to restrain the action or threatened action by state administrative bodies has been approved or directed.
12 The same rule furnished the guide to decision where an injunction was sought to restrain the enforcement of the Florida "Right to Work" constitutional provision, 13 where injunctions were sought to restrain the enforcement of state statutes, 14 and in a suit for a declaratory judgment construing and to enjoin the enforcement of a city ordinance.
15 A like result was reached in a suit to quiet title and for an injunction.
16 The doctrine of abstention was applied in a bankruptcy proceeding involving a question as to the extent of the bankrupt railroad's title to a right of way.
17 Bankruptcy proceedings are inherently proceedings in equity. 18 The pattern is consistent.
The cases are usually equitable.
In the Pullman case the principles of equity are declared to be the basis of the doctrine of abstention and these principles were reiterated in the Fieldcrest Dairies opinion.
In a more recent case reference was made to the Spector Motor Co., Fieldcrest Dairies, Pullman and Magnolia cases, and of them it was said: Magnolia Spector Fieldcrest Pullman supra Meredith v. City of Winter Haven 320 U.S. at pages 236, 237 64 S.Ct. at pages 11, 12 Propper v. Clark 337 U.S. 472, 491, 492 69 S.Ct. 1333, 1344 93 L.Ed. 1480 While the doctrine of abstention has been applied usually in equity cases, including the Magnolia case in bankruptcy, it does not, of course, follow that equity jurisdiction alone is enough to warrant the use of the doctrine.
Cf. Meredith v. City of Winter Haven , supra .
In the Meredith case, where declaratory and injunctive relief was sought, it was stated: Meredith v. City of Winter Haven 320 U.S. 228, 234, 235 64 S.Ct. 7, 11 88 L.Ed. 9 The expropriation proceeding from which this appeal stems is not one where equitable jurisdiction and the discretion incident to such jurisdiction are present.
Nor do we find present any such exceptional circumstances as would require or permit the district court to delay its determination of the case pending a state adjudication of state issues.
The order of the district court is reversed and the cause is remanded.
Reversed and remanded.
