 HUTCHESON , Chief Judge.
Brought by appellee against the City of Meridian under Sec. 2201, 28 U.S.C., the suit was for a declaratory judgment that Sec. 5(e) of House Bill 123, Chapter 372, Mississippi Laws of 1956, insofar as it requires plaintiff to pay two percent of the monthly service charges within its boundaries as compensation for use of its streets, alleys, and other public places, was unconstitutional and invalid.
The claim was: 16 10 Appellant filed an answer and counter-claim, admitting the enactment of Chapter 38 of the Mississippi Laws of 1886 and the construction, extension and expansion of the telephone plant and facilities of the appellee's predecessors in title subsequent to the enactment of said Chapter 38, but denying that this extension or expansion was conducted under Chapter 38 of the Mississippi Laws of 1886, and denying that Chapter 38 of the Mississippi Laws of 1886 constituted an offer of a franchise.
Appellant further denied that appellee succeeded to any rights under Chapter 38 of the Mississippi Laws of 1886.
It, however, admitted that it was seeking to collect two percent of appellee's monthly service charges in said municipality.
Defendant's counter-claim asked that appellee be required to discover the amount of its monthly service charges in the City of Meridian for the period from March 29, 1956, through December 31, 1956, and subsequent thereto during the pendency of this action, and that judgment be rendered against appellee for two percent of the total of said service charges.
Upon the issues thus drawn by the pleadings, the case was tried to the court without a jury on stipulations of fact and documentary evidence, and at the conclusion of the trial the district judge, making and filing an opinion, Southern Bell Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. City of Meridian , D.C., 154 F.Supp.
736 , in which he set out the uncontroverted facts and canvassed and discussed the applicable decisions upon which he based his determination, entered judgment 1 for plaintiff and the City appealed.
Here, stating: appellant assigns a single error, that the district judge erred in granting plaintiff the declaratory judgment as prayed and in denying the defendant's counter claim for a decree requiring appellant to discover the amount of its monthly service charges and to pay appellant two percent of the total of such charges.
Beginning its argument with the statement: and setting out the history in its brief, appellant, discussing under seven numbered points, each extensively argued, the claimed errors of the district judge and assailing his opinion and order as without support in fact and in law, thus concludes its lengthy and detailed brief: Appellee, on its part, agreeing with appellant that there is no issue of fact in this case, and stating: puts forward as a basis for them, Point One of its own: In general support of this point and of its contention that the opinion and decision of the district judge were correct and should be affirmed, appellee thus states and argues its position: supra Upon a careful examination of the briefs and arguments in the light of the record made below, we find that they present nothing for our consideration that was not presented to, and considered by, the district judge, with whose judgment and with the reasons given for it in his thoughtful and thorough opinion, we find ourselves in full agreement.
We conclude, therefore, that no useful purpose would be served by our rediscussing at length all the contentions of the parties and redeclaring as to them the views declared by him.
In addition to announcing our general agreement with the opinion and the result, it will, we think, be sufficient for us to write briefly on one or two of the contentions made and strongly relied on by appellant as to which we think something in addition may well be said.
Of these contentions, the one most strongly urged by appellant is that, since in the Hodges opinion [ Hodges v. Western Union Tel. Co. ], 72 Misc.
910 , 18 So. at page 84 , 29 L.R.A.
770 , the court stated of the Act of 1886: City of St. Louis v. Western Union Tel. Co. 148 U.S. , 102 13 S.Ct. 485 37 L.Ed. 380 this constitutes a binding decision against the conclusion of the district judge that the statute constituted, beyond the power of the state to impair, an offer which, when accepted, became a binding contract.
In our view this contention is without merit because, considered in itself, the language above quoted is dicta, stated merely arguendo and as a make weight and not in decision of any point at issue in the case. More important, however, if the statement could be considered decisional, if in short, though the issue was not raised in the case the court was intending to and did decide that rights conferred by the statute of 1886 upon those accepting under it could be taken away or impaired by subsequent legislation, appellant can take no comfort from such a decision.
For, under the federal decisions cited and relied on by the court below, the offer of the statute when accepted became a contract beyond the reach of state impairment by either legislative or judicial action, and any decision of the Mississippi Supreme Court must yield to the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States to the contrary.
Though, as clearly pointed out in the brief of appellee, a different Mississippi statute and a different Mississippi constitution are involved in Willmut Gas & Oil Co. v. Covington County , 221 Miss. 613 , 71 So.2d 184 , and there are other reasons for distinguishing the decision in that case, the same general considerations which deprive the Hodges case of authority here deprive that case of authority.
There the court held that, while the county could not prevent the use of the 16th Section lands there involved, it could under the particular language of the act, construed in the light of the Mississippi Constitution of 1890, make a charge for such use.
While there was a dissent in the case as to the proper construction of the act, no constitutional question, no claim of impairment of a contract was raised, either by the parties or by the court.
Another matter of which brief notice may be taken is the complete inapplicability to the point presented and decided here, whether a later state act can impair the obligation of a contract entered into with the state, of the opinion of the Sixth Circuit in City of Memphis v. Postal Telegraph Cable Co. , 145 F. 602 .
What and all that was held in that case was that the State of Tennessee, which by an earlier statute had expressly granted to the City of Memphis the right to charge a rental for the use of its streets, had not by the enactment of a later general statute granting telephone and telegraph companies the right to use the streets, impliedly repealed the right so granted.
In it the court merely held that the later statute was not intended to and did not repeal the earlier one on the facts of this case. No question of that kind is or could be presented here.
There the utility was endeavoring to have the earlier statute declared repealed by the later, while here all that the utility is seeking is to have the later statute, as it was in the Memphis case, held to have been enacted with due regard and subject to the earlier one.
What is said arguendo in the final paragraph of the opinion cannot be read in vacuo, it must be read in the light of the opinion as a whole and, so read, is entirely consistent with this view.
Other specific contentions and arguments of appellant, no better founded than these, could be pointed to.
It will suffice, however, we think, to say that, confining our opinion, as the district judge did below, to the sole question presented in this case, whether the Mississippi Act of 1956, in attempting to authorize the City of Meridian to exact compensation by imposing a rental charge for the use of the streets for the poles, wires and other equipment of the plaintiff was invalid as impairing the obligation of a contract and may not therefore be enforced against the appellee we approve his opinion and judgment.
Nothing in the opinion below dealt with, nothing in what we do here in affirming it undertakes to deal with or decide, any question beyond the specific question here presented.
Particularly is it not intended to deal in any way here with questions relating to the exercise of the taxing and police powers of the state or city.
As thus specifically limited, the opinion of the district judge is approved and his judgment is affirmed.
