 JONES , Circuit Judge.
It is provided, among other things, by Rule XI of the House of Representatives that: A Subcommittee of the Committee on Un-American Activities scheduled hearings in Atlanta, Georgia.
At the opening session on July 29, 1958, Representative Francis E. Walter, Chairman of the Committee presided and made a statement which included the following: 18 U.S.C.A. 2385 50 U.S.C.A. 781 50 U.S.C.A. 841 The appellant, who had been subpoenaed as a witness, appeared at the hearing on July 30, 1958, was sworn as a witness, answered a question as to his name and was asked to state his residence and to give his occupation.
His response was, "As a matter of conscience and personal responsibility, I refuse to answer any questions of this committee."
He stated that he was not represented by counsel but knew that he had the privilege of counsel.
He was next asked, "Are you now a member of the Communist Party?"
His answer again was, "As a matter of conscience and personal responsibility, I refuse to answer any questions of this Committee".
At this point the Committee's Staff Director undertook to state the reasons for and pertinency, and relevancy of the question asked and other questions to be asked.
Because the pertinency vel non of the question is a major issue on the appeal, it seems desirable to set forth the Staff Director's statement in the margin.
1 The appellant again refused to answer the question.
The statement of the Staff Director was followed by a supplemental statement of Representative Edwin E. Willis, Chairman of the Subcommittee, who ordered and directed the appellant to answer whether he was a Communist.
There was this response, "I am refusing to answer any questions of this Committee."
Further explanations by members of the Committee or its Staff Director were made; further questions were asked which the appellant was ordered to answer; and these were met by the reiterated statements of the appellant that he was answering no questions of the Committee.
The reasons of the appellant for his refusal to answer any of the Committee's questions were given by him at the Committee hearing in the following statement: The appellant was indicted, tried, convicted and sentenced for his refusal to answer the question "Are you now a member of the Communist Party?"
The appellant asks us to reverse his conviction.
On May 8, 1959, the appellant filed a Statement of Points on Appeal, saying that he intended to rely on the following: These are entirely in keeping with the appellant's position at the hearing.
Subsequent to the taking of the appeal in this cause but before briefs were filed, the opinion in the Barenblatt case 2 was rendered and a conviction was affirmed for refusal to answer questions of a subcommittee of the House Un-American Activities Committee, including the question, "Are you now a member of the Communist Party?"
The same contentions were made in the Barenblatt case as are urged here, and there they were resolved against the position asserted by the appellant.
It will follow, therefore, that unless there be something in the case before us to distinguish it from Barenblatt, our decision must be an affirmance.
The defendant in the Barenblatt case was a college professor and an inquiry was being undertaken into Communist infiltration into education.
The appellant here admitted that he was engaged in aggressive opposition to the continued functioning of the Committee.
The Committee had been informed that the appellant was a hard-core Communist, and he was attempting as a Communist activity to develop hostility to the Committee and its investigations; hence it was within the province of the Committee to make inquiries to ascertain whether Un-American Communist influences were attempting to weaken the Government by impeding and crippling the operation of its legislative branch.
As was said in the Barenblatt opinion, " in pursuance of its legislative concerns in the domain of 'national security' the House has clothed the Un-American Activities Committee with pervasive authority to investigate Communist activities in this country".
360 U.S. 109, 118 , 79 S.Ct. 1081, 1088 .
Included in that pervasive authority is the power to investigate activities directed to interference with the legislative processes and their functioning.
The Congress is not prohibited by the First Amendment guaranty of the right to petition the Government for redress of grievances from exercising measures of self-protection in requiring disclosures of lobbying activities.
United States v. Harriss , 347 U.S. 612 , 74 S.Ct. 808 , 98 L.Ed. 989 .
Since legislation in the area may be enacted, investigations by legislative agencies is authorized.
The activities in which the appellant was believed to be participating presented a more direct threat to the national security than those of which Barenblatt was suspected.
The decision in the Barenblatt case is controlling here.
The judgment of the district court is Affirmed.
