 JONES , Circuit Judge.
The Legislature of Alabama passed a statute which changed the boundaries of the City of Tuskegee in Macon County of that State, Acts 1957, p. 185.
The boundary changes reduced the area of the municipality.
The plaintiffs, appellants here, are Negroes.
They brought a class suit in the District Court for the Middle District of Alabama against the Mayor, the members of the City Council, and the Chief of Police of the City of Tuskegee, and the members of the Board of Revenue, the Sheriff, and the Judge of Probate of Macon County, and the City of Tuskegee, alleging that as a result of the realignment of the boundaries most of the Negroes who had formerly lived in the City and substantially all of the Negroes who had been qualified to vote in City elections would no longer reside within the City.
No white person residing in the City as previously constituted was excluded from it by the Act.
The named plaintiffs, Negroes who had resided within the City limits as they formerly existed but beyond those limits as they are redefined by the statute, for themselves and others of such class, assert in their complaint that they have been deprived of police protection and street improvements, and have been denied the right to vote in municipal elections and participate in the municipal affairs of Tuskegee.
It was averred that the purpose of the passage of the statute was to deny and deprive the plaintiffs of the right of franchise and other rights and privileges of citizenship of the City of Tuskegee.
By the prayer of the complaint the plaintiffs asked for a declaration that the Legislative Act, as applied to the plaintiffs, is in violation of the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment and of the Fifteenth Amendment.
Temporary and permanent injunctions were sought to restrain the defendants from enforcing the statute as to the plaintiffs and those similarly situated, and from denying them the right to participate in municipal elections and to be recognized and treated as citizens of the City of Tuskegee.
The defendants filed a motion to dismiss upon the grounds, variously stated, that the courts of the United States cannot inquire into the purpose of enacting or interfere with the carrying out of State legislation fixing the boundaries of municipalities within the State; and that the suit was, in substance, one against the State of Alabama which these plaintiffs could not maintain.
The district court granted the motion to dismiss and in its opinion discussed the questions presented, and thus stated its conclusions: 167 F.Supp.
410 The Court entered a judgment dismissing the action upon the ground that the complaint failed to state a claim against the defendants upon which relief could be granted, and for lack of jurisdiction.
From this judgment the plaintiffs have appealed.
A general statement of the powers of States over municipal corporations has been made in these words: To this rule Professor Cooley notes exceptions but none are here pertinent.
A portion of the language above has been quoted with approval by the Supreme Court.
Town of Mount Pleasant v. Beckwith , 100 U.S. 514, 529 , 25 L.Ed. 699 .
With fewer words it has been said: 7 In an often cited opinion the Supreme Court has thus pronounced governing principles: Hunter v. City of Pittsburgh 207 U.S. 161 28 S.Ct. 40, 46 52 L.Ed. 151 City of Pawhuska v. Pawhuska Oil & Gas Co. 250 U.S. 394 39 S.Ct. 526 63 L.Ed. 1054 City of Trenton v. State of New Jersey 262 U.S. 182 43 S.Ct. 534 67 L.Ed. 937 In a leading Florida case it is stated: State ex rel.
Davis v. City of Stuart 97 Fla. 69 120 So. 335, 341 It is a general rule that the "power of increase and diminution of municipal territory is plenary, inherent and discretionary in the Legislature, and, when duly exercised, cannot be revised by the courts."
Cooley on Municipal Corporations 106 32 .
See 16 C.J.S.
Constitutional Law 145 , p. 706; Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, supra ; State ex rel.
Davis v. City of Stuart , supra .
It is not claimed that any provision of the State Constitution is violated.
The Alabama Constitution expressly recognizes the legislative power of "altering or rearranging the boundaries" of municipalities.
Ala.Const.Sec.
104(18); Ensley v. City of Simpson , 166 Ala. 366 , 52 So. 61 ; State ex rel.
Brooks v. Gullatt , 210 Ala. 452 , 98 So. 373 .
Should it be contended that a state constitutional question is presented, such contention should not be submitted, in the absence of diversity of citizenship, to Federal tribunals.
We find no necessity to declare the rule that a state legislature may do as it will in altering municipal boundaries unrestrained by any provision of the Federal Constitution to be a rule without exception.
We think this case does not present the exception.
We need not say, for our purposes here, that there may not be cases where courts can properly inquire as to whether a statute fixing boundaries transcends constitutional limits.
We think this is not such a case. Judicial interposition will be sustained where general obligation municipal bonds have been issued and thereafter a change in boundaries has diminished the extent and value of the property subject to tax liens for servicing the bond issue.
In such a case the Federal Constitution prevents the contract obligation of the bonds from being impaired by the reduction of the security pledged for their payment.
However, the statute contracting the area is not to be declared void.
The City's area would be reduced but the City would have a continuing right and be under a continuing duty to levy taxes upon the territory outside, but which was formerly within, its limits as well as upon its remaining area to provide revenue to meet the maturities of interest and principal on the bonds.
Port of Mobile v. Watson , 116 U.S. 289 , 6 S.Ct. 398 , 29 L.Ed. 620 .
Cf. City of Sour Lake v. Branch , 5 Cir., 1925, 6 F.2d 355 , certiorari denied 269 U.S. 565 , 46 S.Ct. 24 , 70 L.Ed. 414 ; Town of Oneida v. Pearson Hardwood Flooring Co. , 169 Tenn. 449 , 88 S.W.2d 998 ; 1 Quindry, Bonds and Bondholders 744 529 .
The members of a municipal corporation, its citizens, are those residing within the municipal boundaries.
They and all of them, but none others, are entitled to the benefits, privileges and immunities and they are subject to the burdens and liabilities of the municipalities.
Property within an incorporated city or town is subject to taxation by the corporation.
So also, as has been observed, land excluded may be subjected to taxation by the municipality to prevent impairment of a contract obligation.
Sojourners must comply with the City's police regulations.
When a person removes from a municipal corporation he loses his membership and the rights incident to such membership and this is no less true where the removal is involuntary and results from a change of boundaries than where the resident removes to another place.
That this is so does not restrict the legislative power to alter municipal boundaries.
It is said by Mr. Justice Jackson, a "fundamental tenet of judicial review that not the wisdom or policy of legislation but only the power of the legislature, is a fit subject for consideration by the courts."
Jackson, Struggle for Judicial Supremacy 81.
See Hunter v. City of Pittsburgh , supra .
In the consideration of statutes the courts will refrain from making inquiry into the motives of the legislature, and will not be influenced by the opinions of any or all the members of the legislature, or of its committees or of any other person.
82 C.J.S.
Statutes 354 , pp.
745-746.
It has recently been stated that "In testing constitutionality 'we cannot undertake a search for motive.'
'If the State has the power to do an act, its intention or the reason by which it is influenced in doing it cannot be inquired into.'"
Shuttlesworth v. Birmingham Board of Education , D.C.N.D.Ala.1958, 162 F.Supp.
372, 381 , affirmed 358 U.S. 101 , 79 S.Ct. 221 , 3 L.Ed.2d 145 .
An attack was made in the Tennessee courts upon an act of the legislature of that State which altered the boundaries of the City of Nashville.
The plaintiffs charged that, among other things, the boundaries were arbitrarily drawn with irregular lines and numerous angles which subjected plaintiffs' property to municipal taxation while excluding other property similarly situated in violation of the due process constitutional provisions.
It was alleged that the act was conceived and its passage procured for sinister motives for the purpose of assessing the property of the plaintiffs and excluding the property of others, and this was done pursuant to an agreement between the persons benefited and a few members of the legislature.
In holding the allegations insufficient the court said: Williams v. City of Nashville 89 Tenn. 487 15 S.W. 364, 366 In a case where an issue was presented not wholly dissimilar to that before us, an attack was made on the County Unit System of voting that prevails in Georgia.
It was asserted, among other things, that the statute providing for the "System" was unconstitutional because it had the "present effect and purpose of preventing the Negro and organized labor and liberal elements of urban communities, including Fulton County, from having their votes effectively counted in primary elections."
It was held by a Three-Judge District Court that the Federal Constitution does not take from states the right to set up their own internal organizations and prescribe the manner of state elections.
South v. Peters , D.C.N.D.Ga.1950, 89 F.Supp.
672 .
The Supreme Court affirmed, although a dissenting opinion took the view that the statute abridged the right to vote on account of color in violation of the Fifteenth Amendment.
South v. Peters , 339 U.S. 276 , 70 S.Ct. 641 , 94 L.Ed. 834 , rehearing denied 339 U.S. 959 , 70 S.Ct. 980 , 94 L.Ed. 1369 .
The enactment by a state legislature of a statute creating, enlarging, diminishing or abolishing a municipal corporation is, as has been noted, a political function.
It is a governmental act.
American Bemberg Corporation v. City of Elizabethton , 180 Tenn. 373 , 175 S.W.2d 535 .
Hence it is an act of sovereignty performed under a power reserved by the Tenth Amendment, 81 C.J.S.
States 2 , p. 858.
This universally recognized sovereign power should not be restricted by prohibiting its exercise where, as an incidence of it, Negroes would be purposely excluded from the municipality and from participation in its affairs.
Our consideration of what we regard to be the applicable rules of law leads us to the conclusion that, in the absence of any racial or class discrimination appearing on the face of the statute, the courts will not hold an act, which decreases the area of a municipality by changing its boundaries, to be invalid as violative of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution, although it is alleged that the enactment was made for the purpose, not appearing in the Act, and with the effect of excluding or removing Negroes from the City and depriving them of the privileges and benefits of municipal membership, including the right to vote in City elections.
Since we have reached this conclusion, it follows that the judgment of the district court must be Affirmed.
BROWN, Circuit Judge, dissenting.
WISDOM, Circuit Judge, concurring specially.
