 BASTIAN , Circuit Judge.
Appellant was indicted, tried and convicted of the offense of contempt of Congress because of his refusal to answer a question put to him by a member of a subcommittee of the House Committee on Un-American Activities at hearings held in Washington, D. C., on July 18, 1957.
The Committee on Un-American Activities is a standing committee of the House of Representatives, elected at the commencement of each Congress.
1 The Committee, or any subcommittee thereof, is authorized to investigate "(i) the extent, character, and objects of un-American propaganda activities in the United States, (ii) the diffusion within the United States of subversive and un-American propaganda that is instigated from foreign countries or of a domestic origin and that attacks the principle of the form of government as guaranteed by our Constitution, and (iii) all other questions in relation thereto that would aid Congress in any necessary remedial legislation."
2 In Watkins v. United States , 1957, 354 U.S. 178 , 77 S.Ct. 1173 , 1 L.Ed.2d 1273 , the Court said that to enable a congressional investigating committee to compel disclosures from an unwilling witness who objects to a question on grounds of pertinency, an explanation of pertinency is required.
"But as the Watkins opinion recognized, Rule XI is only one of several possible points of reference.
The Court in that case said that '[t]he authorizing resolution, the remarks of the chairman or members of the committee, or even the nature of the proceedings themselves' might reveal the subject under inquiry."
Wilkinson v. United States , 1961, 365 U.S. 399 , 81 S.Ct. 567, 572 , 5 L.Ed.2d 633 .
Moreover, in Barenblatt v. United States , 1959, 360 U.S. 109 , 79 S.Ct. 1081 , 3 L.Ed.2d 1115 , and Braden v. United States , 1961, 365 U.S. 431 , 81 S.Ct. 584 , 5 L.Ed.2d 592 , as well as in Wilkinson (all subsequent to Watkins), the Supreme Court has made it abundantly clear that the authorization does enable the Committee to act and states further that persons can be convicted of contempt of Congress whenever the Committee's range of inquiry is narrowed to a specific subject matter sufficiently connected with a valid legislative purpose and whenever the witness is apprised of the subject matter of the inquiry and the pertinency of the particular question asked.
It is against this background that we turn to the case before us.
[**81] The hearings in question were opened on July 17, 1957, at which time the chairman of the subcommittee, Congressman Doyle, stated in pertinent part: He then read into the record a resolution adopted by the full committee on July 10, 1957, under which the subcommittee was then acting.
That resolution authorized hearings Mr. Doyle then continued his own statement, in pertinent part, as follows: The subcommittee then called one Michael Mignon, having satisfied itself in advance that Mignon would be a friendly witness.
Mignon testified that he had been employed in the communications industry since before 1923; that in 1937 he was employed by American Communications Association (known at that time as American Radio Telegraphers Association); and that in 1938 he became vice president of that union, in charge of the radio and cable department.
In 1940, he returned to work in the industry.
He stated that he was a Communist Party member from 1936 to 1940 and that appellant was also a member.
He further stated that appellant was and, in his belief, "still is" secretary-treasurer of Local 10, American Communications Association.
On the question of communist infiltration into the union and the industry, Mignon testified in part as follows: [**82] The following day, the subcommittee called appellant as a witness.
He stated that he had been employed by RCA Communications, Inc. as a radio operator for over twenty-five years and was currently on leave of absence to permit him to hold office as secretary-treasurer of Local 10, American Communications Association.
He further stated that he had been president of Local 10, which had a total membership of approximately 1300.
When the subcommittee began to question him about his alleged communist affiliation, appellant offered to read a typewritten document containing objections to the questioning.
While the subcommittee did not permit appellant to read his prepared statement in its entirety, it did permit the statement to be filed and made a part of the record.
That document reads in pertinent part as follows: During the course of interrogating appellant, the following statements as to [**83] subject matter under inquiry and pertinency were made: 50 U.S.C.A. 782 U. S. of America v. Seymour Peck 154 F.Supp.
603 Mr. Doyle stated that the committee was acting under Public Law 601.
3 The statements to appellant as to pertinency and subject matter then continued.
[**84] Appellant refused to answer the question, 4 and it was for that refusal that he was found guilty under Count Three of the indictment and convicted of the offense of contempt of Congress.
Upon his refusal to answer on grounds of lack of pertinency, Mr. Doyle said: We note at this point that three counts of the indictment were dismissed at trial by agreement of counsel.
The other questions which appellant refused to answer related to his present Communist Party membership and to whether he possessed information with respect to communists presently in the communications industry and in the American Communications Association.
The question upon which the conviction was based was merely one of a series of preliminary inquiries whose pertinency is clearly established by Barenblatt , supra .
We think it clear beyond dispute that, under that case, the committee here was acting pursuant to a valid legislative purpose.
We think it also settled by that case that interrogation such as occurred here was authorized by Congress.
As in Wilkinson, appellant here was called before the committee on the basis of testimony that he was a member of the Communist Party.
Also, as in Wilkinson and Barenblatt, "it is difficult to imagine a preliminary question more pertinent to the topics under investigation than whether petitioner was in fact a member of the Communist Party."
Wilkinson , supra , 365 U.S. at page 413 , 81 S.Ct. at page 575 .
We think that Wilkinson requires a balancing of appellant's First Amendment right to privacy as against the right of the Government to learn conditions necessary for a conclusion as to the need for legislation.
The importance of the communications industry in the event of enemy attack or in the event of internal disaster or civil disorder is too patent to require discussion.
See e. g., Didriksen v. Federal Communications Commission , 1958, 103 U.S.App.D.C.
17 , 254 F.2d 354 .
Appellant also contends that his refusal to answer was not "wilfull" within the meaning of the statute because [**85] it was made in good faith and in reliance on Watkins, before the decision in Barenblatt.
This contention likewise must fail.
It is well settled that mistake of law is no defense to a prosecution for refusal to answer.
Braden v. United States , supra ; Sinclair v. United States , 1929, 279 U.S. 263, 299 , 49 S.Ct. 268 , 73 L.Ed. 692 .
We have delayed decision in this case awaiting the decision of the Supreme Court in Deutch v. United States , 1961, 367 U.S. 456 , 81 S.Ct. 1587 .
In that case, the Supreme Court reversed a contempt of Congress conviction because of lack of pertinency of the questions asked to the subject matter under inquiry.
The holding seems to be that, even in the absence of a pertinency objection, the Government must prove pertinency to support a conviction for refusal to answer.
However, the questions asked of Deutch related to purported Communist Party activities at Cornell University and were asked in the course of an investigation of such activities in the "Albany area," with particular emphasis on labor unions.
The only connection established with Cornell was the practice of various Cornell students, including Communist Party members, of taking summer jobs involving union membership in the Albany area and, while so employed, of carrying on missionary work for the party.
Thus the Supreme Court held, in effect, that the committee strayed from its announced subject under inquiry when it asked the disputed questions of Deutch.
No such situation is found here.
The committee narrowed the subject under inquiry to the communications industry and to communist plans to take over or sabotage that vital industry.
The questions asked of appellant were clearly pertinent to that inquiry.
We have examined the other contentions of appellant and find no error.
The judgment of the District Court is Affirmed.
BAZELON, Circuit Judge, concurs in the result.
