 WATERMAN , Circuit Judge.
On March 2, 1960, members of Local 5895, United Steel Workers of America, went on strike against Carrier Corporation.
Carrier's plant is located in Syracuse, New York, and a substantial amount of its products are shipped from there in interstate commerce.
Upon instituting the strike pickets were maintained at numerous entrances to the Carrier plant.
A picket line was also established at a gate, described more fully hereafter, on a right of way owned by the New York Central Railroad.
Based on charges by Carrier, the Board filed a complaint against the Union and its officers, alleging violations of 8(b) (1) (A), 8(b) (4) (i) and 8(b) (4) (ii) (B) of the National Labor Relations Act.
A hearing was held upon the complaint and the Trial Examiner found that the picketing violated 8(b) (1) (A) of the Act.
The Board entered an order on July 13, 1961, requiring the union to cease and desist from the violation and to take other appropriate action.
The union does not contest this portion of the order, and a consent decree providing for its enforcement has been entered.
1 The Trial Examiner also found that the picketing on the railroad right of way constituted a violation of 8(b) (4) (i) and 8(b) (4) (ii) (B) of the Act, but the Board held, one member dissenting, that those sections had not been violated.
By its petition in this court, Carrier seeks modification of this latter portion of the decision and order of the Board.
The Association of American Railroads, as amicus curiae, has filed a brief supporting Carrier's petition.
Local 5895 has intervened in support of the Board's position.
The question for decision is whether it is a violation of 8(b) (4) (i) and (ii) (B) for a union to picket a railroad right of way adjacent to the employer's premises, when it is the manifest objective of such picketing to prevent employees of the railroad from handling the goods of the struck employer in the course of regular delivery and removal operations.
In agreement with the Trial Examiner and the dissenting member of the Board, we hold that it is.
The facts, as stated by the Board, are as follows: which was owned by the railroad 2 Section 8(b) (4) Section 8(b) (4) of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended by 73 Stat. 542 (1959), 29 U.S.C 158(b) (4) , is one of the provisions of the Act directed against secondary boycotts.
N.L.R.B.
v. Denver Building & Const.
Trades Council , 341 U.S. 675, 686 , 71 S.Ct. 943 , 95 L.Ed. 1284 (1951).
Its purpose is to prevent the enlargement of labor disputes which occurs when a neutral bystander is enmeshed in a controversy not his own.
To this end, unions are prohibited from bringing certain pressures to bear on neutral employers and their employees, pressures which have as their goal that of forcing these secondary parties to break off business relations with the primary employer.
The language of the Act is broad enough to apply whether the forbidden objective is brought about directly, as by interference with suppliers or customers of a struck employer, Local 1976, United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners v. N. L. R. B. , 357 U.S. 93 , 78 S.Ct. 1011 , 2 L.Ed.2d 1186 (1958), or indirectly, as by interference with third party suppliers or customers of a neutral employer who, by these pressures, is forced to break off dealings with the primary employer.
United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners (Wadsworth Building Co.) , 81 N.L.R.B.
802 (1949).
Section 8(b) (4) makes it an unfair labor practice for a union: Provided 3 It is clear that the activities here in question violate the statute if the statute is read literally.
Since the earliest days of the Taft-Hartley Act, however, these sections and their predecessor section prior to the 1959 amendments, 8(b) (4) (A), have received a complex interpretive gloss. "
Section 8(b) (4) must be interpreted and not merely read literally."
Seafarers Int.
Union, etc. v. N. L. R. B. , 105 U.S.App.D.C.
211 , 265 F.2d 585, 591 (1959).
"This provision could not be literally construed; otherwise it would ban most strikes historically considered to be lawful, so-called primary activity."
Local 761, Int.
Union of Electrical, Radio & Machine Workers v. N. L. R. B. , 366 U.S. 667, 672 , 81 S.Ct. 1285, 1288 , 61 L.Ed.2d 592 (1961).
The basic difficulty one encounters with a literal reading is that traditional picketing around the premises of an employer with whom a union has a dispute almost inevitably involves some interference with the relations between that employer and his suppliers or customers.
"A strike, by its very nature, inconveniences those who customarily do business with the struck employer."
Oil Workers Int.
Union (Pure Oil Co.) , 84 N.L.R.B.
315, 318 (1949).
"The cases recognize the very practical fact that, intended or not, sought for or not, aimed for or not, employees of neutral employers do take action sympathetic with strikers and do put pressure on their own employers."
Seafarers Int.
Union, etc. v. N. L. R. B. , 105 U.S.App.D.C.
211 , 265 F.2d 585, 590 (1959).
Thus, "[i]t is clear that, when a union pickets an employer with whom it has a dispute, it hopes, even if it does not intend, that all persons will honor the picket line, and that hope encompasses the employees of neutral employers who may in the course of their employment (deliverymen and the like) have to enter the premises."
Id. at 591 .
Moreover, it was clear from the legislative history of the Act and was made explicitly clear by the 1959 amendments that Congress did not, by 8(b) (4) , intend to outlaw traditional primary strike activity or traditional methods of picketing.
To accommodate the apparent conflict between the literal language of the statute on the one hand, and, on the other, the Congressional purpose, the Board and the courts have evolved the "primary-secondary activity" distinction.
The line that has been drawn between the two kinds of activity has been uncertain and wavering, involving distinctions "more nice than obvious."
Local 761, Int.
Union of Electrical, Radio & Machine Workers , supra 366 U.S. at 674 , 81 S.Ct. at 1290 .
What is worse, the conceptual dichotomy has been ambiguous.
In some cases decision as to whether union activity was "primary" or "secondary" has turned on whether the activity was encompassed within a literal reading of the act or affected secondary employers, and it was immaterial to the result whether the activity was, in the end, held to be unlawful under 8(b) (4) .
N. L. R. B. v. Business Machine & Office Appliance Mechanics Conference Board (Royal Typewriter Co.) , 228 F.2d 553 (2 Cir. 1955), cert. denied, 351 U.S. 962 , 76 S.Ct. 1025 , 100 L.Ed. 1483 .
In other cases, the labels "primary" and "secondary" were purely conclusionary appellations, the choice of label turning upon whether a particular activity or complex of activities was ultimately held to violate, or to be immune from, the proscriptions of 8(b) (4) .
Int.
Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 807 (Schultz Refrigerated Service) , 87 N.L.R.B.
504 (1949).
In all events, where picketing was limited to the premises of the primary employer, the Board and the courts, by adopting this distinction between primary and secondary activities, exempted from the proscription of 8(b) (4) many activities covered by the subsection's literal language.
United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers (Ryan Construction Corp.) , 85 N.L.R.B.
417 (1949); Di Giorgio Fruit Corp. v. N. L. R. B. , 89 U.S.App.D.C.
155 , 191 F.2d 642 , 28 A.L.R.2d 377 (1951); Milwaukee Plywood Co. v. N. L. R. B. , 285 F.2d 325 (7 Cir. 1960); cf.
Local 761 , supra .
These cases are not dispositive of the issue before us, inasmuch as here the union's activities took place not on the premises of the Carrier Corporation but on an adjacent right of way owned by the New York Central Railroad.
However, exceptions to a literal reading of the proscriptions of 8(b) (4) have not been limited to cases of picketing on the premises of the primary employer.
Occasionally, the job site in relation to which a dispute arises is located on the premises of a neutral third party.
In such circumstances the unions involved have claimed their traditional right to picket at the job site.
To deal with this class of cases the Board has utilized a "situs of the dispute" concept.
Although the situs of the dispute is normally at the premises of the primary employer, an application of this concept permits extension, in appropriate circumstances, of traditional union activity to neutral construction sites, N.L.R.B.
v. Denver Building & Const.
Trades Council , 341 U.S. 675 , 71 S.Ct. 943 , 95 L.Ed. 1284 (1951), to ambulatory vehicles in the trucking industry, Int.
Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 807 (Schultz Refrigerated Service) , supra , or to a ship moored at the dry dock of a neutral employer, Sailors' Union of the Pacific (Moore Dry Dock) , 92 N.L.R.B.
547 (1950).
Within limitations to be discussed hereafter, picketing at such places has, in some cases, been held lawful under the act, even though incidental injury has been suffered by neutral employers occupying the common situs.
But these "common" or "ambulatory" situs cases are no more dispositive of the issue before us than are those cases involving the picketing of the primary employer's premises, for no employee of Carrier Corporation worked on the railroad right of way either before or during the strike.
Indeed, we find no controlling authority to enlighten us, and, absent controlling authority, we must find our decisional guidelines behind the disparate facts of prior dissimilar cases.
In doing so, we are mindful of the warning of the Supreme Court in Local 1976, United Brotherhood of Carpenters & Joiners v. N. L. R. B. , 357 U.S. 93, 99-100 , 78 S.Ct. 1011, 1016 , 2 L.Ed.2d 1186 (1958): We are aware, no less, that "[t]he nature of the problem, as revealed by unfolding variant situations, inevitably involves an evolutionary process for its rational response, not a quick, definitive formula as a comprehensive answer."
Local 761 , supra , 366 U.S. at 674 , 81 S.Ct. at 1290 .
Nevertheless, distrust of quick formulae does not lead us to the opposite evil of overreliance upon finely spun factual distinctions having no basis in legislative history or in reason.
Ours is the task of principled decision and Congress could have intended no less when it enacted the statute and placed upon us the duty to review orders of the Board thereunder.
Relevant prior constructions of 8(b) (4) can best be understood, perhaps, when divided into two time periods.
I The first period, beginning with the enactment of the Taft-Hartley Act in 1947, and terminating in 1952, may be characterized by relatively narrow constructions of 8(b) (4) by the N.L.R.B.
The cases may be further subdivided into those involving picketing at the premises of the primary employer and those involving picketing at neutral premises.
From the earliest cases, the Board ruled that all picketing at the premises of the primary employer was immune from the proscriptions of 8(b) (4) (A).
Relying on the legislative history rather than the language of the statute, the Board maintained this position, even when it was clear that the picketing could have no appeal but to employees of neutral employers.
Thus, in United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers (Ryan Construction Corp.) , 85 N.L.R.B.
417 (1949), the union, in support of its dispute with the primary employer Bucyrus, picketed the entire Bucyrus premises, including a separate gate that had been cut through the fence to provide ingress for Ryan employees to the site of a construction project Ryan was performing for Bucyrus.
Ruling that the activity was "primary picketing" outside the proscriptions of 8(b) (4) (A), the Board stated that the provision "was intended only to outlaw certain secondary boycotts, whereby unions sought to enlarge the economic battleground beyond the premises of the primary employer.
When picketing is wholly at the premises of the employer with whom the union is engaged in a labor dispute, it cannot be called 'secondary' even though, as is virtually always the case, an object of the picketing is to dissuade all persons from entering such premises for business reasons."
Id. at 418 .
And see Oil Workers Int.
Union (Pure Oil Co.) , 84 N.L.R.B.
315 (1949).
Where picketing activities had taken place on neutral premises, the early cases were in substantial confusion.
In some, the Board, still conceding the existence of the objective proscribed by the Act, attempted to carve out a new and broader geographical area of immunity based, now, on the notion of "the situs of the dispute," or "the area of primary conduct."
Thus, in Int.
Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 807 (Schultz Refrigerated Service) , 87 N.L.R.B.
504 (1949), Schultz had moved its place of business from New York City to New Jersey, replacing members of Local 807 by drivers from a New Jersey local.
In ruling that the displaced drivers might picket around the trucks while they were being loaded or unloaded at the premises of New York City customers, the Board stated: In this respect there is no distinction between lawful primary picketing and unlawful secondary picketing proscribed by 8(b) (4) (A) situs Id. at 505 Within this "area of primary conduct," therefore, the union could "lawfully persuade all persons, including in this case the employees of Schultz' customers and consignees, to cease doing business with the struck employer."
Id. at 504 .
In Sailors' Union of the Pacific (Moore Dry Dock) , 92 N.L.R.B.
547 (1950), the Board imposed limitations, in the form of the often-quoted "Moore Dry Dock Conditions," upon a union's right to picket at the situs of a dispute located on neutral premises: situs situs situs Id. at 549 The limitations were designed, once again, to prove less the issue of intent under the statute, however, than to isolate spatio-temporal areas of exemption from its operation.
The rationale justifying this approach was the underlying intent of Congress, in enacting 8(b) (4) (A), not to interfere with traditional "primary activities" of striking unions.
Although Schultz and Moore Dry Dock are consistent with the Board's approach to contemporaneous cases involving the picketing of a primary employer's premises, they are not easily reconciled with three closely-preceding "neutral" or "common-situs" Board decisions: Local 74, United Brotherhood of Carpenters (I. A. Watson Co.) , 80 N.L.R.B.
533 (1948); Int.
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 501 (Samuel Langer) , 82 N.L.R.B.
1028 (1949); and Denver Building and Const.
Trades Council , 82 N.L.R.B.
1195 (1949).
All three involved disputes concerning the use of non-union employees at construction sites.
In the Watson case, the owner of certain premises contracted with members of the respondent union to renovate a dwelling.
Subsequently, the owner contracted with the Watson Co., an employer of non-union labor whom the respondent had unsuccessfully sought to organize in the past, to install wall and floor coverings in the project.
When an officer of the respondent learned of the situation, he ordered members of the union off the job.
In Langer and Denver the general contractors of construction projects were the ones who subcontracted portions of the jobs to employers of non-union men.
The respondent unions again had had long-standing disputes with the errant subcontractors in each case.
When the construction sites were picketed, union employees of other subcontractors walked off the job.
In each of these three cases the Board, without hesitation, found a violation of 8(b) (4) (A), despite the fact that picketing was limited to the situs of the dispute and met the soon-to-be-announced Moore Dry Dock criteria for picketing neutral premises.
Rather than relying on the primary-secondary activity distinction, the Board founded its complaint, in each case, upon the fact that an objective of the unions' actions was to force the general contractors in Denver and Langer, and the owner in Watson, to cancel their contracts with the subcontractor-employers of non-union men.
Toward the end of this first period, 4 the Supreme Court, in four decisions handed down on June 4, 1951, took the opportunity to review the early Board interpretations of 8(b) (4) (A).
In N. L. R. B. v. International Rice Milling Co. , 341 U.S. 665 , 71 S.Ct. 961 , 95 L.Ed. 1284 (1951), members of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters had picketed the premises of the Kaplan Rice Mills, Inc. for purposes of securing recognition of the union as the collective bargaining representative of the mill employees.
During the course of their picketing, the members sought to encourage the drivers of the truck of a neutral customer to refrain from entering the premises to pick up an order of goods.
Citing Oil Workers Int.
Union (Pure Oil Co.) , supra , the Board had dismissed the complaint on the ground that the union's activities were merely " primary picketing" of the Kaplan mill and were carried out in the immediate vicinity of the mill.
Although approving the Board's dismissal of the complaint, the Court rested its action upon a wholly different rationale from that enunciated by the Board in Ryan and Pure Oil: 8(b) (4) concerted 341 U.S. 671 71 S.Ct. 964 Id. at 670 71 S.Ct. 964 8(b) (4) Id. at 671 71 S.Ct. 964 Although the Court's specific ratio decidendi in International Rice was not to survive the 1959 amendments by which the requirement of 8(b) (4) that "concerted" action be encouraged was eliminated, 5 its basic approach to the case was to have profound effects upon subsequent constructions of the statute.
No longer were there geographical areas exempted from the operation of 8(b) (4) .
Analysis of the legitimacy of union activities was to proceed by an examination of intent or objectives when neutrals were threatened harm by a labor dispute not their own.
The remaining three cases decided by the Court on June 4, 1951, together with International Rice, furthered this analysis in the context of "common situs" picketing.
In N. L. R. B. v. Denver Building & Const.
Trades Council , 341 U.S. 675 , 71 S.Ct. 943 , 95 L.Ed. 1284 (1951); Int.
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 501, etc. v. N. L. R. B. , 341 U.S. 694 , 71 S.Ct. 954 , 95 L.Ed. 1299 (1951); and Local 74, United Brotherhood of Carpenters & Joiners of America v. N. L. R. B. , 341 U.S. 707 , 71 S.Ct. 966 , 95 L.Ed. 1309 (1951), the Court approved the Board's finding below of a violation of 8(b) (4) (A) in Denver, Langer and Watson, respectively.
In finding that the statute had been violated the centrality of the unions' objectives was emphasized: 8(b) (4) sole 18 "18.
Senator Taft, sponsor of the bill, stated in his supplementary analysis of it as passed: ' Section 8(b) (4) , relating to illegal strikes and boycotts, was amended in conference by striking out the words "for the purpose of" and inserting the clause "where an object thereof is."'
93 Cong.Rec.
6859 ."
Denver Building & Construction Trades Council , supra , 341 U.S. at 689 , 71 S.Ct. at 951 .
Though these four decisions handed down by the Supreme Court on June 4, 1951, set the basic approach to subsequent constructions of the statute, fundamental problems still remained.
To find a violation of 8(b) (4) it was sufficient that an object of a union's actions was to interfere with business relations between the primary employer and neutral third parties.
However, the Board had recognized, as Judge Prettyman stated some years later, that "when a union pickets an employer with whom it has a dispute, it hopes, even if it does not intend, that all persons will honor the picket line, and that hope encompasses the employees of neutral employers who may in the course of their employment have to enter the premises."
Seafarers Int.
Union, etc. v. N. L. R. B. , 105 U.S.App.D.C.
211 , 265 F.2d 585, 591 (1959).
It was clear, thus, that harm to neutral employers could be justified under the Act, not because the harm occurred at exempted locations, but only if it occurred as an incidental effect of the union's pursuit of legitimate strike objectives.
N. L. R. B. v. Service Trade Chauffeurs, etc., Local 145 , 191 F.2d 65, 67 (2 Cir. 1951).
It remained (1) to identify the strike objectives which under the Act were legitimate as distinguished from hoped-for results which if incidentally accomplished, could be permissible but which could not be independently pursued, and (2) to establish evidentiary guidelines by which the true objectives of union activity could be ascertained in the absence of an admission of illegal intent.
II During the second of the time periods, 1952 to date, into which we have separated the decisions construing 8(b) (4) , substantial progress was made in solving the two problems mentioned above.
Concomitant with that progress the statute received broader readings from the Board and the courts.
The leading case of the period was Brewery and Beverage Drivers and Workers, Local 67 (Washington Coca Cola Bottling Works, Inc.) , 107 N.L.R.B.
299 (1953).
There, the respondent union, after calling a recognitional strike against Washington Coca Cola, picketed not only the plant, but the company's delivery trucks as they made their rounds to customers' premises.
Although the activity appeared to comply with the four Moore Dry Dock criteria for picketing an ambulatory situs of dispute, and closely paralleled approved union activities in Schultz Refrigerated Service , supra , it was held by the Board to constitute a violation of 8(b) (4) (A).
Prior cases were distinguished on the ground, primarily, that in them, unlike in Washington Coca Cola, the primary employer had no permanent place of business at which the union could adequately publicize its dispute.
The rationale underlying this new limitation on neutral premises picketing was not immediately clear.
What came to be known as the "Washington Coca Cola doctrine," however, was articulated in a series of Board decisions over the following seven or eight years.
In Int.
Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 659 (Ready Mixed Concrete Co.) , 116 N.L.R.B.
461 (1956), the Board found a violation of 8(b) (4) (A) on facts closely similar to those in Washington Coca Cola.
The Trial Examiner had stated, with the approval of the Board, that: Int.
Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 659 (Ready Mixed Concrete Co.) 116 N.L.R.B.
461, 473 The reason behind this fifth condition was stated by the Examiner as follows: Schultz Refrigerated Service supra Id. at 474 Although the Washington Coca Cola doctrine was first articulated in ambulatory situs cases, its rationale was extended to all cases threatening involvement of neutral employers and their employees.
Thus, in Retail Fruit and Vegetable Clerks Union, Local 1017 (Crystal Palace Market) , 116 N.L.R.B.
858 (1956), the employer with whom the union was involved in a dispute owned a large market hall and operated several stands therein, leasing the remaining stands to neutral third parties.
When a strike was called against the primary employer, the union was given permission to picket at the particular stands operated by him, but chose, rather, to picket at several general entrances to the market hall. In holding these activities outside the standards established for common situs picketing, and thus violative of 8(b) (4) , the Board stated: "In developing and applying these standards, the controlling consideration has been to require that the picketing be so conducted as to minimize its impact on neutral employers insofar as this can be done without substantial impairment of the effectiveness of the picketing in reaching the primary employees."
Id. at 859 (emphasis in original).
The principle underlying Washington Coca Cola was extended to reach picketing of the premises of a primary employer even when the premises did not harbor neutral employers or their employees.
In Chauffeurs, Teamsters and Helpers Local 175 (McJunkin Corp.) , 128 N.L.R.B.
522 (1960), members of the striking union had picketed only one of ten entrances to the plant of the primary employer, that being a trucking entrance not normally used by employees of the plant.
The Board held that action to be violative of 8(b) (4) when combined with (1) the sending of "hot cargo" letters to neutral carriers with whom the primary employer dealt, and (2) one direct approach to neutral employees at their place of work requesting that they not handle the goods of the primary employer: 128 N.L.R.B.
at 525 6 The pattern thus becomes clear.
A. The roots of the Washington Coca Cola doctrine lay in the Supreme Court's insistence that the gravamen of any complaint under 8(b) (4) is a union's pursuit of a forbidden objective .
B. The legitimate objectives of primary strike or picketing activity were identified.
These were repeatedly stated to be "reaching the primary employees," Crystal Palace Market , supra at 859 , "publiciz[ing] its labor dispute in a traditional way among employees primarily interested," Ready Mixed Concrete Co. , supra at 474 , "communicat[ing] to employees of the primary employer its picketing message," Ibid. 7 C. Involvement of the employees of neutral employers was permissible only if merely incidental to the pursuit of a legitimate primary objective.
D. Most important, the doctrine required that picketing be conducted in such a manner and at such a place as to minimize its impact on neutral employees insofar as this could be done without substantial impairment of the effectiveness of the picketing in reaching the primary employees.
Actions beyond that minimum were to be interpreted as a pursuit of objectives forbidden by the Act and thus violative of its provisions.
8 The relevance of these principles to the issue before us is clear.
In picketing the railroad right of way adjacent to the Carrier plant, the union was not furthering its legitimate objective of publicizing its dispute to Carrier employees.
Eight gates on the employer's premises existed, and were picketed, for this purpose.
Carrier employees, prior to the strike, were not permitted access to the plant through the gate on the railroad right of way.
In picketing on the railroad right of way the union demonstrated that its manifest, and sole , objective was to induce or to encourage railroad employees, or to coerce the railroad, to refuse to handle Carrier goods or otherwise to deal with the primary employer.
Such results, although permissible when merely incidental to the pursuit of legitimate objectives, Di Giorgio Fruit Corp. v. N.L.R.B.
, 89 U.S.App.D.C.
155 , 191 F.2d 642 (1951), here involved no such redemptive feature.
The actions of the union were thus in violation of 8(b) (4) (i) and (ii) (B) of the Act.
III Where the picketing of neutral or secondary premises has been at issue, the courts of appeals have repeatedly ruled in a manner consistent with the principles set forth above.
See, e.g., N.L.R.B.
v. United Steelworkers of America, Local 5246 , 250 F.2d 184 (1 Cir., 1957); N.L.R.B.
v. General Drivers, Salesmen, Warehousemen & Helpers, Local Union 984 , 251 F.2d 494 (6 Cir., 1958); Brewery & Beverage Drivers, etc., Union v. N.L.R.B.
, 95 U.S.App.D.C.
117 , 220 F.2d 380 (1955); N.L.R.B.
v. Associated Musicians, etc., Local 802 , 226 F.2d 900 (2 Cir., 1955).
In Seafarers International Union, etc. v. N.L.R.B.
, 105 U.S.App.D.C.
211 , 265 F.2d 585 (1959), however, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit denied enforcement of an order of the Board which was clearly required by these principles.
The union's dispute in that case was with Salt Dome, the operator of a ship used in offshore oil drilling in the Louisiana tidelands of the Gulf of Mexico.
When the ship was taken to the neutral Todd shipyard for overhaul and repairs, members of the union began picketing outside the shipyard gates.
(They had been denied the right to picket on the wharf immediately alongside the vessel.)
Two days after the picketing began, Salt Dome removed all its non-supervisory employees from the ship; the picketing continued, however, for more than a week thereafter.
As a result of this activity employees of the Todd shipyard refused to work on the Salt Dome vessel although they continued with other work about the yard.
The Board ruled that by picketing after the removal from the ship of all Salt Dome's non-supervisory employees, the union revealed that its actions were directed not to fellow employees of Salt Dome, but to the neutral employees of Todd.
In reversing the Board's finding of a 8(b) (4) violation upon these facts, the Court agreed that "[t]he question is the objective.
In the case at bar, if the objective of the strike encompassed Salt Dome only, it was legal.
If its objective was partly Todd or its employees, it was illegal.
The difference is in whether the effect on Todd's workers was an objective of the strike or was merely an incident of it."
265 F.2d at 590 .
The court introduced a new test, however, for determining, in the absence of admissions by the union of an illegal intent, the objectives of picketing elsewhere than on the primary employer's premises: Since the picketing in the case at bar cast upon Todd no greater adverse effect than would thus have been the case Id. at 592 Id. at 591 As we read the dissenting opinion, our colleague relies upon this same argument in the case before us.
"It is clear from the record that the picketing employees made no attempt to interfere with any of the railroad's operations for plants other than Carrier.
The railroad employees were not encouraged, nor did they refuse, to serve the other plants.
The picketing was designed to accomplish no more than picketing outside one of Carrier's own delivery entrances might have accomplished."
To our minds, the crucial fallacy in this argument lies in the failure to distinguish between fully legitimate objectives of a union in picketing a primary employer's premises, and those hoped-for results which are not permissible unless only incidentally achieved.
It is clear that where a union engages in traditional picketing activities on the premises of the employer with whom it has a dispute, its actions may lawfully have the effect of encouraging employees of neutral suppliers or customers not to enter the premises.
Di Giorgio Fruit Corp. v. N.L.R.B.
, 89 U.S.App.D.C.
155 , 191 F.2d 642 (1951).
The cases have uniformly held, however, that such attempts to influence neutral employees are lawful only if incidental to the independently legitimate objective of publicizing the union's dispute with the primary employer to the employees of that employer.
After all, the language found in a statute is not wholly irrelevant to its proper construction.
Because a harm may be permitted in one instance only because incidental to lawful activities, it is fallacious reasoning to hold that the same harm must be permitted in another instance where it is independently pursued.
Neither logic nor the sense of the different economic situations indicates that such a result is justified.
Insofar as the decision in Seafarers International Union, etc. v. N.L.R.B.
supra , rests upon a line of reasoning we cannot accept, we find the case unpersuasive.
Though the statute may permit economic harm to be suffered by a neutral when a union, in the progess of aggressively pursuing lawful objectives, incidentally occasions that harm, it does not follow that economic harm suffered by a neutral, independently occasioned by aggressive union activity, is also permissible under that statute.
Finally, counsel for the Board place great reliance upon the recent decisions of the Supreme Court in Local 761, International Union of Electrical, Radio & Machine Workers (General Electric Co.) v. N.L.R.B.
, 366 U.S. 667 , 81 S.Ct. 1285 , 61 L.Ed.2d 592 (1961).
There, as in the Ryan case, supra , the union had picketed several entrance gates to the plant of the primary employer.
One of these gates was used exclusively by employees of independent contractors who were utilized to perform various tasks on the premises.
Although remanding the case for further findings of fact by the Board, the Court held such picketing of a separate gate to be violative of 8(b) (4) so long as the independent workers were "performing tasks unconnected to the normal operations of the struck employer."
Id. at 680 , 81 S.Ct. at 1293 .
And see United Steelworkers v. N. L. R. B. , 289 F.2d 591 (2 Cir. 1961).
The Court's holding in General Electric does not, of course, conflict with the result we here reach.
In both cases union picketing activities are held to violate 8(b) (4) of the Act because of their appeal to neutral employees.
In General Electric, the picketing took place at the premises of the employer with whom the union was engaged in a dispute.
The Supreme Court limited its finding of illegality, therefore, to circumstances in which the neutral employees were not engaged in work connected with the normal operations of the plant.
In so limiting its holding the Court acknowledged the special solicitude of Congress and the Board that the statute not unduly restrict traditional picketing at the premises of the primary employer .
Local 761 (General Electric) , supra , 366 U.S. at 679, 681 , 81 S.Ct. 1285 .
In this case, however, the union activity occurred on the right of way of the New York Central Railroad.
No special policy of greater latitude for picketing at the primary employer's premises thus comes into play, and no distinction based on the work performed by the neutral employees need be made.
We do not find in General Electric a policy of the Supreme Court to exempt from the Act's proscriptions all union attempts to keep deliveries from being made to a struck plant, wherever and however such attempts are made.
Yet it is this position for which the Board now earnestly contends.
Were we to accept such a doctrine, however, we should not be able to distinguish attempts to prevent deliveries from attempts directly to interfere with other business relations between the struck employer and his suppliers or customers.
Congress might have written 8(b) (4) to apply only to union interference with business relations between a struck employer's suppliers and customers and their suppliers and customers.
It did not do so, nor have the courts failed to find violations of the Act where union activities directly interfered with relations between a struck employer and secondary parties dealing with him.
See, e.g., Local 1976, United Brotherhood of Carpenters (Sand Door & Plywood Co.) v. N.L.R.B.
, 357 U.S. 93 , 78 S.Ct. 1011 , 2 L.Ed.2d 1186 (1958).
We do not read Local 761 (General Electric Co.) v. N.L.R.B.
, supra , to conflict with our disposition of the case at bar.
Nor do we find the decision of this court in N. L. R. B. v. Local 294, I. B. T. 284 2d 887 (2 Cir. 1960), to be inconsistent with the result herein.
In that case which, like General Electric, was expressly decided under the law prior to the 1959 amendments to the Act, members of the respondent Union picketed trucks of the struck employer while pickups and deliveries were being made at neutral employers' premises.
Although it was evident that the union activities were directed to secondary rather than primary employees, we ruled that under the Act prior to the 1959 amendments this fact would not be determinative of illegality unless the neutral employees were encouraged to engage in "a strike or a concerted refusal to handle goods of or for the primary employer", 284 F.2d at 889 (citing N. L. R. B. v. International Rice Milling Co. , supra ).
From requests which the strikers had made to the neutral employees not to handle the goods of the struck employer, we found the requisite inducement to concerted activity and granted enforcement of the Board order.
Since the enactment of the 1959 amendments, however, as we have set forth more fully above, the inducement to concerted activity by neutral employees is no longer required for the proscriptions of 8(b) (4) (A) to come into operation.
The amended Act has been broadened by its terms to proscribe any inducement to any neutral employee not to handle the goods of the struck employer.
The petition of Carrier Corporation is granted.
