 HAYS , Circuit Judge.
This is an action for damages and injunctive relief brought under Sections 4 and 16 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C.A. 15 , 26 .
The principal issue is whether defendant by instructing its members to deny private wire service to the plaintiffs engaged in an activity prohibited by Section 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C.A. 1 .
The lower court, granting plaintiff's motion for summary judgment, held that defendant's action constituted a concerted refusal to deal which was per se unlawful, and gave plaintiff a permanent injunction.
196 F.Supp.
209 (S.D.N.Y.1961).
This is the order from which the present appeal is taken.
We reverse on the ground that the defendant acted in pursuance of powers granted to it by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C.A. 78a et seq.
The plaintiffs, Municipal Securities and Municipal Securities, Inc. are engaged in the securities business in Dallas, Texas.
Municipal Securities deals almost exclusively in municipal bonds, Municipal Securities, Inc. in over-the-counter corporate securities.
They are not members of the New York Stock Exchange.
Harold J. Silver was, until his death, sole proprietor of Municipal Securities.
He and his wife were the principal officers and directors of Municipal Securities, Inc. In June, 1958, Municipal Securities, Inc. applied to the New York Stock Exchange for approval of private wire connections 1 with several offices of firms which were members of the Exchange.
2 The Exchange gave "temporary approval" to the proposed arrangement and the connections were installed.
Following its usual practice in such cases the Exchange ordered an investigation of Municipal Securities, Inc. and its officers.
The investigation revealed several matters which appeared to the Exchange to have a bearing on whether approval of the application of Municipal Securities, Inc. should be made permanent.
According to the Exchange, plaintiff Silver, in providing the information requested by the Exchange in connection with his application, had failed to list two corporations with which he and his wife had been connected, the Defense Department had suspended the security clearance of Silver and his wife and of another corporation in which the Silvers held a major interest, the Silvers had "apparently" breached an agreement involving the exchange of certain shares of stock, and there were "further disclosures of a derogatory nature."
On February 12, 1959, relying upon the results of its investigation and without notice to Municipal Securities, Inc., the Exchange "requested" its members to discontinue the private wire connections with Municipal Securities, Inc.
They did so. The results of the investigation were disclosed only in the course of the proceedings in the lower court, and, then, according to the Exchange, only in part.
Silver's attempts to learn from the Exchange the reasons for the cancellation of the wire services were unavailing.
He was informed that the practice of the Exchange did not permit the disclosure of this information.
The lower court held that the action of the Exchange and its members constituted a concerted refusal to deal which violated Section 1 of the Sherman Act and was illegal per se .
It is quite clear that there would be, at the very least, a grave doubt as to the legality of the action of the defendant if it is not insulated from liability under the Sherman Act for such action by reason of the duties and obligations imposed upon it by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
We hold, however, that the action of the Exchange in bringing about the cancellation of the private wire connections with members of the Exchange was within the general scope of the authority of the Exchange as defined by the 1934 Act and therefore outside the coverage of the Sherman Act.
The broad scope of the Securities Exchange Act is indicated by Section 2 , Necessity for Regulation, which reads in part as follows: The basic scheme of the Act contemplates that control over the conduct of members of securities exchanges will be shared by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the securities exchanges themselves, with the Commission exercising general supervisory power over the exchanges' self-regulation.
The report on stock exchange regulation by the so-called Dickinson Committee which, at the request of the President and in collaboration with the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency, formulated the fundamental plan for the legislation in this field, stated: 3 The House Committee Report on the bill which became the 1934 Act said: 4 The Senate Committee Report said: 5 The structure of the Act bears out this purpose.
Section 6(a) requires an exchange upon registering with the Commission to file a registration statement containing "an agreement to comply, and to enforce so far as it is within its powers compliance by its members, with the provisions of" the Act and the Commission's rules and regulations thereunder.
Section 6(a) (3) requires the filing with the Commission of copies of the constitution of the Exchange, and its rules.
The Exchange must provide "an agreement to furnish to the Commission copies of any amendments to the rules of the Exchange forthwith upon their adoption."
(Section 6(a) (4)).
The rules of the Exchange must "include provision for the expulsion, suspension or disciplining of a member for conduct or proceeding inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade," and must be "just and adequate to insure fair dealing and protect investors."
(Section 6 (c, d).)
Under Section 19 the Commission is authorized "if in its opinion such action is necessary or appropriate for the protection of investors Section 19(b) provides: In accordance with the requirements of the Act, the constitution and rules of the defendant New York Stock Exchange were filed with the Commission.
Article III, Section 6, of the constitution provides that the Board of Governors of the Exchange "shall have supervision over all matters relating to the collection, dissemination and use of quotations and of reports of prices on the Exchange and shall have the power to approve or disapprove any application for ticker service to any non-member, or for wire, wireless, or other connection between any office of any member of the Exchange, member firm or member corporation and any nonmember, and may require the discontinuance of any such service or connection."
Rules 355 and 356 as they read in 1958 provided: As Judge Clark said in Baird v. Franklin , 141 F.2d 238, 244 (2d Cir.), cert. denied, 323 U.S. 737 , 65 S.Ct. 38 , 89 L.Ed. 591 (1944), the Act makes it the duty of the Exchange to enforce the rules which it is required to file with the Commission.
6 See also 2 Loss, Securities Regulation 1178 (1961).
To summarize: The structure of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and its legislative history disclose that the Act was designed to require that the Securities and Exchange Commission share with the exchanges themselves the governance of those matters which the Act regulates.
The constitution and rules of the New York Stock Exchange are filed with the Commission.
It is reasonably to be presumed that those regulations have the approval of the Commission since it has not taken the action which it is empowered by the statute to take to bring about their amendment.
The Exchange is required by virtue of the statute to enforce its rules.
As long as the Exchange acts within the scope of its statutory authority in the enforcement of its rules its action cannot be condemned as within the prohibitions of the Sherman Act.
But, it is argued, and the lower court held, that the Exchange exceeded its authority in the present case in acting with respect to dealings in over-the-counter securities.
It may be, it is said, that the Exchange is free from the restrictions of the anti-trust laws so long as it confines its activity to matters which relate to securities which are listed on the Exchange; but when it goes beyond these limits and purports to exercise authority over dealers in the over-the-counter market it subjects itself to a charge of violation of the Sherman Act.
There is no justification in the Securities Exchange Act for drawing a distinction between the control which the Exchange is called upon to exercise over its members when they are dealing with listed securities and when they are dealing with other securities.
On the contrary there are a number of references in the Act to activities connected with unlisted securities or with "any" securities (see e. g. Section 7(c) (2), Section 8(c), Section 10(b)).
The Commission urges that this case be determined "without casting any doubt upon the right and duty of registered stock exchanges to discipline their members who are engaged in practices contrary to just and equitable principles of trade, including violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the Commission's rules thereunder, regardless of whether such practices relate to listed or unlisted securities, and whether a non-member may be indirectly adversely affected."
7 The Commission has long recognized that what a member of an exchange does as an over-the-counter dealer has an important connection with his membership in the Exchange.
In a number of cases members have been expelled or suspended from membership on securities exchanges as a penalty for derelictions in their over-the-counter business.
See e. g. Walston and Co. , 7 S.E.C.
937 (1940), modified 9 S.E.C.
660 (1941), petition for review dismissed, 121 F.2d 1019 (9th Cir. 1941); Archer & Co. , 11 S.E.C.
635 (1942), aff'd, 133 F.2d 795 (8th Cir. 1943); Robert DeForest Boomer, 13 S.E.C.
102 (1943); Mason, Moran & Co., 35 S.E.C.
84 (1953); R. L. Emacio & Co., 35 S.E.C.
191 (1953).
The New York Stock Exchange is performing a vital public function.
Its standing and reputation are important to the national economy.
"The bill proceeds on the theory that the exchanges are public institutions," said the House Committee Report 8 referring to the bill which later became the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Mr. Justice Douglas, when he was Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said: 9 It is highly important for the proper operation of the Exchange as a public institution that its membership and procedures continue to enjoy the confidence of investors.
The reputation of the Exchange is a valuable asset from the public point of view.
The Exchange must have sufficient power of discipline over its members to enable it to enforce the high standards of conduct which the Act contemplates.
If it is to have the requisite power it cannot be hamstrung by an unjustifiable limitation based upon whether its members are at the moment dealing in listed or in unlisted securities.
We conclude that the statute gives the Commission and the Exchange disciplinary powers over members of the Exchange with respect to their transactions in over-the-counter securities, and that the policy of the statute requires that the Exchange exercise these powers fully.
In the exercise of such powers the Exchange is not subject to the restrictions of the Sherman Act.
The next question presented is whether this immunity applies regardless of the correctness or, indeed, reasonableness of a particular decision.
Does a securities exchange, while acting within the general scope of its authority to discipline its members, fall into the ambit of the Sherman Act when a particular decision is arbitrary or unreasonable?
To find that the Sherman Act applies in such a situation would go far toward defeating the statutory policy of self-regulation.
If securities exchanges were in constant danger of subjecting themselves to liability under the anti-trust laws for any misapplication of their disciplinary powers, they would understandably be relunctant to fulfill their obligations under the Securities Exchange Act.
Cf.
Booth v. Fletcher , 69 App.D.C.
351 , 101 F.2d 676, 680 (1938), cert. denied, 307 U.S. 628 , 59 S.Ct. 835 , 83 L.Ed. 1511 (1939).
When the exchanges are acting other than in "the clear absence of all jurisdiction over the subject matter," Bradley v. Fisher , 80 U.S. 335, 351 , 20 L.Ed. 646 (1871), they are secure from such liability to a person aggrieved by their action.
In the exercise of the powers which they are required by the statute to exercise the exchanges must be immune from prosecution under other legislation.
Cf. Gregoire v. Biddle , 177 F.2d 579 (2d Cir. 1949), cert. denied, 339 U.S. 949 , 70 S.Ct. 803 , 94 L.Ed. 1363 (1950).
What has been said does not mean that if the action of the Exchange was arbitrary or unreasonable appellees are without a remedy.
The Exchange is exempt from the restrictions of the Sherman Act because it is exercising a power which it is required to exercise by the Securities Exchange Act.
The availability of judicial review is a necessary concomitant of the exercise of such power.
See Steele v. Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company , 323 U.S. 192 , 65 S.Ct. 226 , 89 L.Ed. 173 (1944); Conley v. Gibson , 355 U.S. 41 , 78 S.Ct. 99 , 2 L.Ed.2d 80 (1957); Jaffe, The Right to Judicial Review, 71 Harv.L.Rev.
401 , 769, 800-808 (1958).
Compare Administrative Procedure Act 10a , 5 U.S.C. 1009(a) (1958).
That the statute is silent on the question of judicial review is, of course, not decisive.
Estep v. United States , 327 U.S. 114, 120 , 66 S.Ct. 423 , 90 L.Ed. 567 (1946).
The lower court, examining the situation for possible application to it of the "rule of reason" under the Sherman Act, found that the Exchange had acted "arbitrarily and unreasonably in directing that plaintiff's wire connections be severed."
196 F.Supp.
at 227 .
Whatever conclusion one might reach on this issue, the procedure of the Exchange in failing to give prior notice of its action and in refusing to inform Silver of the charges made against him and to give him an opportunity to rebut these charges may well be characterized as arbitrary.
The question therefore arises as to whether the judgment below should be affirmed because an injunction might have been available to the plaintiff had the suit sought relief from the Exchange's arbitrary action rather than the remedies provided by the Clayton Act.
This is not, however, a case for the application of the accepted rule that a judgment which grants an appropriate remedy will not be reversed merely because the correct result was reached on an erroneous theory.
See Fed.Rules Civ.Proc.
54(c) , 28 U.S.C.A.; Mackintosh v. Estate of Marks , 225 F.2d 211 (5th Cir. 1955); Psinakis v. Psinakis , 221 F.2d 418, 423 (3rd Cir. 1955); Shelley v. Union Oil Co. , 203 F.2d 808 , 14 Alaska 287 , (1953).
In this case we cannot be certain that, if the plaintiff had not proceeded under the Sherman Act, the parties would not have treated the controversy quite differently.
The plaintiff, for example, might even have sought another remedy.
The Exchange might have determined to grant the plaintiff an opportunity to rebut the charges made against him.
Had the district court been guided by the principles set forth in this opinion, it might have chosen to hold a hearing and to hear witnesses instead of deciding the issues by summary action and injunction.
We therefore reverse and remand to give the parties and the district court an opportunity to reconsider the case in the light of our opinion.
