 WILBUR K. MILLER , Circuit Judge.
The City of New Orleans, Louisiana, is conterminous with the Parish of Orleans in which it is located.
It is south of and adjacent to that part of Jefferson Parish which lies east of the Mississippi River.
The latter is a populous area, already commercially and industrially active, in which further development is expected to be rapid and extensive.
The Whitney National Bank of New Orleans, by far the largest bank in Louisiana, with its main office and numerous branches in Orleans Parish, draws a substantial volume of business from customers in east Jefferson Parish.
For some time it has desired to extend its operations into that area, but cannot establish branches therein because a Louisiana statute, 1 which is construed as forbidding such expansion by state banks, is made applicable to national banks in Louisiana by a federal statute.
2 After several years of studying alternate methods of doing indirectly what these statutes prohibited it from doing directly, The Whitney National Bank of New Orleans finally decided upon a corporate reorganization, the details of which included the formation of a holding company to own two new national banks: Crescent City National Bank, a mere conduit to exist temporarily in name only, and Whitney National Bank in Jefferson Parish, to be operated as we shall describe.
All three new organizations were to be financed with funds furnished by Whitney of New Orleans.
Through elaborate maneuvers which will be explained later, the result would be that Whitney Holding Corporation would own all the stock, except qualifying shares, of Whitney of New Orleans and Whitney in Jefferson Parish; and the shares of Whitney Holding Corporation would be owned by the shareholders of the original Whitney of New Orleans in the same proportion as before.
The holding company feature of the plan required the approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the remainder of it required the approval of the Comptroller of the Currency.
Commenting on the proposed plan, Whitney's president on October 28, 1961, advised his shareholders it had been decided to use the holding company device instead of the "affiliated" bank plan which we approved in the Camden Trust case 3 [**288] largely because, under the latter arrangement, it is impossible to attain and preserve identity of ownership of the two banks.
He said: sic This plan was carried out almost completely.
Whitney of New Orleans organized the Whitney Holding Corporation with $350,000 initial capital furnished by it, with which Whitney Holding acquired the "phantom" 4 Crescent City National Bank.
The Whitney Bank then by consolidation transferred its assets to Crescent City National Bank (owned by Whitney Holding) and immediately changed Crescent City's name to The Whitney National Bank of New Orleans.
Then the new Whitney of New Orleans furnished the Holding Corporation with $650,000 5 with which the latter organized The Whitney National Bank in Jefferson Parish.
And all the Holding Corporation's capital stock was distributed proportionately to the stockholders of the original Whitney of New Orleans.
All this was done with the approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (which had the duty of passing on the validity of the holding company arrangement) and of the Comptroller of the Currency.
The only step not yet taken is the Comptroller's issuance to The Whitney National Bank in [**289] Jefferson Parish of a Certificate of Authority which will enable it to begin business.
On June 9, 1962, three Louisiana state banks 6 filed this suit against the Comptroller of the Currency, James J. Saxon, in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.
Their complaint, after describing Whitney's plan of reorganization and the various steps already taken pursuant to it, alleged that the Comptroller 12 U.S.C. 27 The relief prayed for was a declaration that 12 U.S.C. 27 , 36 and 1841 et seq., prohibit the Comptroller from issuing a Certificate of Authority to the newly-organized Whitney-Jefferson bank, and that he be preliminarily and permanently enjoined After the complaint was filed, the Comptroller at first voluntarily withheld issuance of a Certificate of Authority to Whitney-Jefferson, but later indicated he would do so no longer.
As a consequence, the plaintiffs moved for a temporary restraining order which was issued by District Judge Hart June 27, 1962; and on July 10, 1962, District Judge Holtzoff entered a preliminary injunction in accordance with the prayer of the complaint.
Meanwhile the Louisiana legislature of 1962 adopted a State Bank Holding Company Act, [**290] being Act 275, 7 which the Governor designated as emergency legislation so that it became effective July 10, 1962.
Section 3(5) of that Act (6:1003 (5)) is in pertinent part as follows: Admittedly, this measure was passed to prohibit the opening of Whitney-Jefferson.
Numerous pleadings, affidavits and other documents were filed by the various parties, including the opinion of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approving Whitney Holding Corporation's acquisition of the Whitney National Bank of New Orleans, as reorganized, and Whitney National Bank in Jefferson Parish, and Governor Robertson's dissent from that action.
Cross motions for summary judgment, the Comptroller's motion to dismiss, and the plaintiffs' motion for a permanent injunction came on for hearing before District Judge McLaughlin on October 10, 1962.
He filed a memorandum opinion holding that Louisiana Act 275, 3(5) makes it unlawful for Whitney-Jefferson to commence business, and that the Comptroller should be enjoined from issuing to it a Certificate of Authority to open its doors.
Having so concluded, Judge McLaughlin deemed it unnecessary to consider whether the establishment of Whitney-Jefferson violated 12 U.S.C. 36(c) .
His opinion is reported in 211 F.Supp.
576 (1962).
Findings of fact and conclusions of law were filed by Judge McLaughlin December 5, 1962.
The findings include the following: 12 U.S.C. 36(c) 54 First [**291] Second Third Fourth Section 3(5) Among the court's conclusion of law are the following: [**292] Commercial State Bank v. Gidney 174 F.Supp.
770, 778 108 U.S.App.D.C.
37 278 F.2d 871 Camden Trust Co. v. Gidney 112 U.S.App.D.C.
197 301 F.2d 521 369 U.S. 886 82 S.Ct. 1158 8 L.Ed.2d 287 Gidney v. Wayne Oakland Bank 252 F.2d 537 358 U.S. 830 79 S.Ct. 50 3 L.Ed.2d 69 12 U.S.C. 1846 Section 3(5) Braeburn Securities Corp. v. Smith 15 Ill.2d 55 153 N.E.2d 806 359 U.S. 311 79 S.Ct. 876 3 L.Ed.2d 831 102 N.H. 106 151 A.2d 236 12 U.S.C. 1842(d) Commercial State Bank v. Gidney supra Wayne Oakland Bank v. Gidney supra Wisconsin Bankers Association v. Robertson 190 F.Supp.
90, 94 111 U.S.App.D.C.
85 294 F.2d 714 368 U.S. 938 82 S.Ct. 381 7 L.Ed.2d 338 368 U.S. 979 82 S.Ct. 477 7 L.Ed.2d 441 Commercial State Bank v. Gidney supra Wayne Oakland Bank v. Gidney supra Judgment was entered in accordance with the conclusions.
Whitney-Jefferson filed notice of appeal therefrom on January 31, 1963, and the Comptroller's notice of appeal was filed February 1, 1963.
That explains why there are two separately styled and numbered proceedings in this court in what is in reality a single appeal.
In the brief for the Comptroller it is argued vigorously and at some length that the appellees have no standing to challenge his administrative determination to issue a Certificate of Authority to Whitney-Jefferson.
8 The only purpose of the state banks in filing this suit, says his brief, is to avoid the lessening of business and profits which might result from the presence of a new competing institution in the area; but, he continues, possible economic disadvantage from competition [**293] is not enough, absent a special Congressional grant of standing, to permit the disadvantaged party to invoke the jurisdiction of the courts.
We were told by his counsel on oral argument, however, that the Comptroller had instructed him not to press the lack of standing argument, as he desired a ruling on the merits.
If we could accept the Comptroller's offer to waive the point concerning standing, this opinion would be substantially shortened, as the discussion of the merits, when reached, will not detain us long.
The point cannot be thus waived by the Comptroller because it is jurisdictional: if the appellees lack standing to sue, their complaint should have been dismissed on that ground.
Jurisdiction cannot be conferred by waiver; it is a threshold question which must be examined.
The Comptroller's brief contends that "appellees can point to no legal or actionable wrong to them arising from the opening of a new national bank."
It is, of course, true, as held in Alabama Power Co. v. Ickes , 302 U.S. 464 , 58 S.Ct. 300 , 82 L.Ed. 374 (1938), that one who has no contractual or statutory right to be free of competition, and no property right which would be infringed thereby, has no standing to challenge federal administrative action which simply increases the amount or effectiveness of competition.
And we held in Union Nat.
Bank of Clarksburg v. Home Loan Bank Bd. , 98 U.S.App.D.C.
204 , 233 F.2d 695 (1956), that, in the circumstances of that case, existing banks had no standing to challenge the Home Loan Bank Board's issuance of a charter to a proposed savings and loan association.
In that case, the complaining banks were relying on a provision of the Home Owners' Loan Act that We held that the complaining banks were not "local thrift and home-financing institutions" and so were not protected by the statute from the competition of a lawfully-established federal savings and loan association.
These and similar cases do not apply here because the applicable statutes and the facts of this case are different.
9 For instance, the appellees, Bank of New Orleans and Trust Company and Bank of Louisiana in New Orleans, are state banks having their principal and branch offices in Orleans Parish.
They derive substantial volumes of business from the contiguous "east bank" portion of Jefferson Parish but are prohibited by Louisiana law from establishing branches there or in any parish other than Orleans.
They allege that Whitney, with its main office in Orleans Parish but also with substantial business from east Jefferson Parish, is subject to the same restriction as to the establishment of outside branches because 12 U.S.C. 36(c) makes the Louisiana statute applicable to national banks.
The state banks say that thus they have a right, under the combination of federal and state statutes, to be free of the competition in east Jefferson Parish which would result if Whitney of Orleans Parish is allowed to establish branches in east Jefferson where the state law forbids them to go.
The state banks allege further that the Comptroller is not authorized to permit, but rather is prohibited by law from permitting, Whitney of New Orleans to establish branches in east Jefferson, and that his unlawful act in doing so would result in illegal competition and a consequent violation of their right, guaranteed [**294] by state and federal statutes, to be free of such competition.
The other appellee state bank is in nearby Lafayette Parish and has substantial business from east Jefferson which would be diminished by the unlawful competition of Whitney National's branches.
Clearly, then, under the allegations of their complaint, the three state banks have standing.
It is not enough to say contra that the Whitney-Jefferson bank will not be a branch of Whitney-New Orleans and that, therefore, the state banks have no legal right to protection against its establishment and consequently no standing to sue.
For, whether or not Whitney-Jefferson will in legal effect be a branch of Whitney-New Orleans is the question tendered for adjudication, upon which under the circumstances the question of standing in part depends.
If it is determined that Whitney-Jefferson is not a branch, it might or might not follow that the state banks had no standing--a matter on which we need not pass; but if it is held to be tantamount to a branch purporting to have been federally authorized, their standing would be indubitable.
Nor is it an answer to say that the state banks may utilize the holding company device to enter east Jefferson Parish, just as Whitney-New Orleans is attempting to do.
Regardless of whether Act 275 of the 1962 Louisiana legislature is a direct prohibition against the opening of the new Whitney-Jefferson, unquestionably it effectively prevents the appellee state banks from opening new banks in Jefferson Parish through the medium of holding companies or otherwise.
So, the complaint is that the Comptroller has permitted Whitney-New Orleans to organize a new branch in east Jefferson through the use of a holding company device which Louisiana law forbids a state bank to employ, and is about to authorize its opening.
The distinction between this case and those cited by the Comptroller as to standing to sue was carefully drawn by the Supreme Court in Alabama Power Co. v. Ickes , supra , 302 U.S. at page 484 , 58 S.Ct. at page 306 , 82 L.Ed. 374 (one of his citations), when it said: Frost v. Corporation Commission 278 U.S. 515 49 S.Ct. 235 73 L.Ed. 483 it was exclusive against an attempt to operate a competing gin without a permit or under a void permit We concluded that a legal right of Frost to be free from such competition would be invaded by one not having a valid franchise to compete Corporation Commission v. Lowe 281 U.S. 431, 435 50 S.Ct. 397 74 L.Ed. 945 The difference between the Frost case and this is fundamental; for the competition contemplated there was unlawful while that of the municipalities contemplated here is entirely lawful Although the Frost case is not factually identical with this one, it is sufficiently similar to be dispositive of the question of standing.
The charters of [**295] the appellee banks, granted by the State of Louisiana, are guarded by a combination of specifically applicable federal and state statutes.
The appellee banks cannot complain of lawful competition from other lawfully chartered state or national banks because their own charters are not exclusive licenses.
But where, as here, the threatened competition arises from an allegedly illegal facility, the appellee state banks have standing to invoke the jurisdiction of a federal court to challenge the alleged unlawful federal administrative action which admittedly would result in irreparable injury to their property rights in their charters.
The Comptroller asserts he has discretion as to whether to issue a Certificate of Authority to a new national bank which cannot be judicially controlled.
The same contention was made in Commercial State Bank of Roseville v. Gidney , 174 F.Supp.
770 (D.C.D.C.1959), where two state banks within two and one-half miles of a proposed national bank branch sought to enjoin the then Comptroller from authorizing the unlawful competition which threatened them with immediate and irreparable injury.
Uncontroverted affidavits showed that the town of Clinton, site of the proposed branch, could not itself support the new facility, which would therefore necessarily draw its business from the surrounding communities already served by the complaining state banks.
District Judge Youngdahl brushed aside the Comptroller's discretion argument by saying, at page 778: discretion no discretion no discretion We affirmed Judge Youngdahl's decision.
108 U.S.App.D.C.
37 , 278 F.2d 871 (1960).
In the case of National Bank of Detroit v. Wayne Oakland Bank , 252 F.2d 537 , at page 544, cert. denied 358 U.S. 830 , 79 S.Ct. 50 , 3 L.Ed.2d 69 (1958), the Sixth Circuit said: Judge Tamm of our District Court held in Wisconsin Bankers Association v. Robertson , 190 F.Supp.
90 (1960), that national and state banks of Wisconsin collectively have the exclusive right to conduct the business of banking in that state, which gave them standing to challenge alleged competition in that business by federal savings and loan associations.
10 In sum, we have no doubt that the three state banks 11 had standing to sue the Comptroller in this action in order to test the legality of his proposed action.
This conclusion makes it unnecessary to decide whether the Louisiana State Bank Commissioner had standing to sue.
We turn to the question on the merits: whether the District Court was correct in permanently restraining and enjoining [**296] the Comptroller from issuing a Certificate of Authority to Whitney-Jefferson.
If Whitney-Jefferson, in its organization, management and operation, would be to all intents and purposes a branch of Whitney-New Orleans forbidden by 12 U.S.C. 36(c) , the authority of the District Court to enjoin him from issuing a Certificate of Authority is quite clear.
Since Whitney-Jefferson clearly is not an affiliate, the question is whether the elaborate and ingenious scheme of reorganization devised by Whitney-New Orleans results in what is in reality the establishment of a branch of Whitney-New Orleans in east Jefferson Parish, in violation of federal law.
There was actually no pretense about the matter: Whitney of New Orleans frankly proposed to evade the statutes by establishing through the holding company arrangement an office in east Jefferson Parish which it would manage and control.
Its president said on October 27, 1961, in his communication to Whitney-New Orleans stockholders which explained in detail the plan of reorganization: On October 28, 1961, he wrote to his stockholders: sic same management the combined banks the large and the small bank have identical ownership as well as management He will have the full benefits of a relationship with the large bank the permanent relationship This is a very good description of a branch banking operation, regardless of the fact that Whitney's president did not denominate it as such.
The nature of the arrangement, and not the label applied to it, determines the character of the relationship between two banking institutions.
In 12 U.S.C. 36 Congress gave a broad meaning to the word "branch": any branch bank, branch office, branch agency, additional office, or any branch place of business The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, although it approved the application of Whitney Holding Corporation to acquire the capital stock of Whitney-New Orleans and Whitney-Jefferson, was under no illusion as to the true nature of the transaction.
It said: The stated purpose of the proposed holding company system is to enable an organization centered about Whitney New Orleans to provide banking services not only through its existing 12 offices within the City of New Orleans but also [**297] through offices in the East Bank of Jefferson Parish in fact, for present purposes the holding company itself is simply the means by which Whitney banking offices may be established and operated in East Bank which depend principally upon the prospects of Whitney New Orleans The management and policies of the holding company system, it appears, would be equivalent to those of Whitney New Orleans The Board of Governors said, however, in denying the protestants' petition for reconsideration of its approval of Whitney Holding's application: 12 Whitney-New Orleans's purpose of evading federal and state statutes forbidding branch banking in Louisiana beyond parish lines was known to the Comptroller when he approved the arrangement.
His affidavit, which is in the record states: [**298] The Comptroller states in his brief: 12 U.S.C. 36 First Nat.
Bank of Billings v. First Bank Stock Corp. 306 F.2d 937 The Billings case is far from being factually "on all fours" with the present case.
There the bank holding company was organized in 1929, and had been operating in that capacity for 30 years.
It possessed stock in 87 banks with 94 offices.
Thus, it was not created or organized by a bank, as Whitney Holding was, solely for the purpose of opening a branch office of that bank.
It was the traditionally recognized bank holding company which, with its own capital, invests in or buys the stock of banks.
It was not the type of holding company here involved, whose only capital was the money siphoned through it by Whitney-New Orleans to open Whitney-Jefferson in a prohibited location.
And the Billings opinion says, at page 942: Camden Trust Co. v. Gidney 112 U.S.App.D.C.
197 301 F.2d 521 We agree with the Ninth Circuit that the corporate veil should be pierced whenever one bank is "doing business through the instrumentality of" the other or "in the same way as if the institutions were one."
"The unitary type of operation," said in the Billings opinion to be "characteristic of branch banking," is present here.
In such circumstances, the relation of parent and branch exists, even though the banks are separate corporate organizations.
The facts already recited sufficiently show, we think, that Whitney-New Orleans intends to do business through Whitney-Jefferson in the same was as if the institutions were one.
The president of Whitney-New Orleans frankly made this quite clear.
We recite some of his statements: On June 28, 1961, in submitting to the Comptroller applications to organize Crescent City and Whitney-Jefferson and to consolidate Crescent City with the original Whitney-New Orleans, Whitney's president said: On October 27, 1961, he advised his shareholders that [**299] Addressing them on October 28, 1962, he spoke of Whitney-New Orleans and Whitney-Jefferson as "the combined banks," said the large and small banks will "have identical ownership as well as management," and referred to the organization plan as a "method of pooling all of the deposits of our customers and of our capital funds *."
And, as we have pointed out, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System said "the holding company itself is simply the means by which Whitney banking offices may be established and operated in East Bank [east Jefferson Parish]."
Consequently, we pierce the corporate veil which shrouds this intricate transaction, and see Whitney-New Orleans attempting to establish a branch in Jefferson Parish in violation of 12 U.S.C. 36(c) .
It is a bootstrap operation by which Whitney-New Orleans, using its own funds in corporate maneuvering, seeks to establish a branch in prohibited territory.
Like Jacob of old, Whitney-New Orleans covered its hands with the Esau-like plan of reorganization and, despite the telltale sound of its own voice, obtained the blessing of the Comptroller of the Currency.
Unlike Isaac, however, the Comptroller was not gulled by the ruse; acting ultra vires in the circumstances shown, he knowingly permitted it because he considered the end desirable, and because he thought the corporate maneuvering impervious to attack.
But, when the corporate veil is pierced, it becomes apparent that both voice and hands were those of Whitney-New Orleans.
The Comptroller contends that the reasoning and holding of our Camden Trust opinion 13 are controlling here.
We do not agree.
Whitney of New Orleans considered the "affiliate" arrangement we approved in the Camden case, and decided not to use it because it does not permit the identity of ownership provided by the holding company device, and because it does not assure that even the permitted affiliation will remain constant.
Quite unlike the sum total of the several factors which led us to approve the "affiliate" status in the Camden Trust situation, we need observe only that here, inter alia , the holding company is not providing Whitney-Jefferson with new and fresh capital, but with capital supplied by Whitney-New Orleans; the new bank will be managed and controlled by the executives of Whitney-New Orleans; and the name, Whitney National Bank in Jefferson Parish (the last three words in small letters on its checks and other forms), is easily susceptible of confusion with the parent organizer, 14 The Whitney National Bank of New Orleans.
We are unwilling to extend the holding of the Camden Trust case to cover a situation such as that presented here.
We think it clear that the opening of Whitney-Jefferson is prohibited by 12 U.S.C. 36 and that, consequently, the Comptroller was properly enjoined from issuing a Certificate of Authority for it to begin business.
It is therefore unnecessary for us to decide whether the opening is also prohibited by Act 275 of the Louisiana legislature.
15 Affirmed.
