 JOSEPH C. HUTCHESON, Jr.
, Circuit Judge.
Appellant brought this action under the Jones Act.
1 Employed by appellee as a roughneck on its drilling crew, appellant was assigned to an offshore fixed platform which was tended by Drilling Barge No. 1, concededly a "vessel".
Although appellant performed his principal duties on the fixed platform, as a roughneck, he did occasionally perform various duties aboard the barge and was injured while doing such seaman's work.
The controlling fact issue before the trial court was whether the appellant was a seaman or crew member, and hence within the coverage of the Act, or a drilling employee.
In response to an interrogatory, 2 the jury found that appellant was not a member of the crew of Drilling Barge No. 1.
Appellant first complains that he was prejudiced by the comment of the court to the jury that "the evidence is overwhelmingly to the effect that he was a drilling employee".
The statement, taken in context, 3 does not transcend the undeniable right of the court to comment on the evidence and does not constitute error.
In connection with the interrogatory as to whether the appellant was a seaman, the court charged: "To constitute one a member of the crew of a vessel, it is necessary that he be permanently assigned to the vessel, or that he perform a substantial part of his work on such vessel, and that his duties contributed to the mission or function of the vessel".
Appellant contends that that charge was erroneous, and that the court should have charged, as requested by appellant, that: "The fact that he [appellant] has other duties to perform off the vessel, or on other vessels, or that his principal duties are elsewhere, does not in itself prevent coverage under the Jones Act".
In our opinion, the charge given was correct, and the court properly refused the requested charge.
4 Finally, appellant complains of the overruling of his motion to instruct appellee not to refer to, or introduce into evidence, the fact that appellant had received payments under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.
Appellee argues that the motion was properly overruled because the fact that appellant received such payments went to show that appellant considered himself a drilling employee rather than a seaman; therefore, the fact that appellant received such payments was relevant to the issue of his status.
We do not agree.
Regardless of what the appellant, at any particular time, thought was his status, the issue of status depended upon objective facts.
Appellant's beliefs, being wholly subjective, in no way affected the issue of status and hence was irrelevant.
However, in view of the fact that the jury, having decided the question of status adversely to appellant, never reached the issue of damages, we believe that the error did not prejudice appellant and was harmless.
No reversible error appearing, the judgment should be, and it hereby is Affirmed.
