 TUTTLE , Chief Judge: This is an appeal by the named appellant and 19 other persons charged with the violation of Georgia's so-called anti-trespass statute, Title 26 Georgia Code Annotated, Section 3005 , from an order entered by the district court without a hearing remanding the cases for trial to the state court after they had been removed by a petition for removal filed pursuant to Title 28 U.S.C.A. 1443(1) and (2) (the Civil Rights Removal Sections).
Having held, in the case of Congress of Racial Equality et al.
v. Town of Clinton, Parish of East Feliciana , 5 Cir., 1964, F.2d , that the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 resolved the question of appealability of remand orders as to cases removed to the Federal District Courts under Section 1443 , supra , 1 we turn directly to the merits of the appeal.
2 The question to be resolved on the merits of the appeal is whether the petition for removal in this case adequately stated a basis for removal under the indicated section of the removal statutes.
Title 28 U.S.C.A. 1443 , provides as follows: 1443 The meaning of this statute, passed in a package with the first post-bellum Civil Rights Act, Act of April 9, 1866, 14 Stat. 27 , has been the subject of debate since its passage.
It was originally construed to cover cases in which the defendant alleged his inability to obtain a fair trial due to such informal impediments as local prejudice.
State v. Dunlap , 1871, 65 N.C. 491 ; see also Ex parte Wells , 3 Woods 128 , quoted in Kentucky v. Powers , 1906, 201 U.S. 1, 27 , 26 S.Ct. 387 , 50 L.Ed. 633 (Bradley, J., on circuit).
Later, the view was taken that only formal impediments, stemming from State legislation, could give rise to such deprivations of equal civil rights as would allow a defendant to invoke federal jurisdiction by removal.
Kentucky v. Powers , 1906, 201 U.S. 1 , 26 S.Ct. 387 .
As this latter view was the latest Supreme Court pronouncement directly on the matter, the district court in the present case felt bound by it.
In remanding the case to the State court, the district court states that "A criminal prosecution or a civil case under this statute [ 28 U.S.C.A. 1443 ] because of a civil right or the enforcement of such right must arise out of the destruction of such right by the Constitution or statutory laws of the State wherein the action is pending."
In delineating the scope of the civil rights removal statute for the first time, the Supreme Court placed great stress on the necessity that the denial of protected rights be made to appear in advance of trial, State of Virginia v. Rives , 1879, 100 U.S. 313 , 25 L.Ed. 667 .
By way of illustration, the Court indicated that denials of equal rights at the hands of court officials, occurring during trial, could not be cured by removal but that such denials under state legislation could be safeguarded against in this manner.
It has been argued that, under a realistic appraisal of the facts in a given case, the Supreme Court today would recognize the right to removal under 1443(1) even where no legislative denial of rights is shown.
See Krieger, "Local Prejudice and Removal of Criminal Cases From State to Federal Courts," 19 St.
John's L.Rev.
43 (1944); Note, "Local Prejudice in Criminal Cases," 54 Harv.L.Rev.
679 , 685-86 (1941).
Such a recognition by the Court thus would reemphasize the putative essence of Virginia v. Rives--that the denial of equal rights must be susceptible of demonstration before trial--and minimize the illustrative language in that case dealing with state legislation.
We have been asked by the appellants to anticipate such an interpretation of 1443 by the Supreme Court; however, there is no reason for us to reach that question in this case.
This is so for two reasons.
First, the petition in this case did allege the denial of protected rights by State legislation.
Secondly, the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and its interpretation in Hamm v. City of Rock Hill , 1964, 379 U.S. 306 , 85 S.Ct. 384 , 13 L.Ed.2d 300 , provide a different, and narrower, ground on which this case may be disposed of.
After alleging the specific facts respecting the arrests of each of the 20 persons, including allegations that each of them was, when arrested, seeking food or accommodations at a restaurant or hotel, the petitioners alleged that each of their acts had been followed by special Grand Jury presentments charging them with violating the named section of the Georgia Code, and that the said presentments were pending in the Superior Court of Fulton County and were to be heard within a few days if not transferred.
They then alleged the following: Section 1443 (1) Section 1 statute The district court apparently decided that, since the removal petition did not expressly allege that Section 26-3005 was unconstitutional on its face, the petition failed to allege adequately that "the destruction of" the right to equal protection granted by the United States Constitution was caused by "statutory laws of the State" of Georgia.
The allegation contained in paragraph 4 of the petition for removal, quoted above, that petitioners were denied their rights under the constitution and laws of the United States because the State of Georgia "by statute supports and maintains a policy of racial discrimination," however, clearly asserts the precise ground for removal that the trial court said was required.
This would not be so, of course, if a petition for removal, unlike other pleadings under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, must contain something more than the bare bones allegation of the existence of a right.
As to this matter, we have no doubt that the rules of notice pleading apply with as much vigor to petitions for removal as they do to other pleadings, which, according to Rule 8(f) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, "shall be so construed as to do substantial justice."
The statute requires that the petition for removal contain "a short and plain statement of the facts which entitle him or them to removal."
28 U.S.C.A. 1446 .
The Supreme Court has held that the removal must be effected by the filing of "a verified petition setting forth, agreeably to the ordinary rules of pleading, the particular facts, not already appearing, out of which the right arises."
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co. v. Cockrell , 1914, 232 U.S. 146, 151 , 34 S.Ct. 278, 280 , 58 L.Ed. 544 .
It is plain, therefore, that the petition is to be construed "agreeably to the ordinary Rules of pleading" since in fact the petition for removal is the basis for the federal court's jurisdiction and it is a pleading of the facts necessary to vest jurisdiction in the federal court.
In Allman v. Hanley , 5 Cir., 1962, 302 F.2d 559, 562 , this Court said: Section 1446(a) This is in line with this Court's construction of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure relating to the liberality of pleadings under the rules.
If a petition for removal states sufficient in the way of allegations to support proof of adequate grounds for removal, it is to be treated in the same manner as a complaint in federal court.
As to such a pleading, this Court has frequently reiterated what we said in Des Isles v. Evans , 5 Cir., 1952, 200 F.2d 614, 615 , in quoting Moore's Federal Practice: In that case we also quoted from an opinion by this Court in De Loach v. Crowley's Inc. , 5 Cir., 1942, 128 F.2d 378, 380 : We conclude, therefore, that this petition for removal adequately alleged that the appellants suffered a denial of equal civil rights by virtue of the statute under which they were being prosecuted in the State Court.
Unless there is patently no substance in this allegation, a good claim for removal under 1443(1) has been stated.
That the allegation does not lack substance may be seen from a consideration of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as construed by the Supreme Court.
Statutes of South Carolina and Arkansas, substantially the same as the Georgia statute involved here, were before the Supreme Court in Hamm v. City of Rock Hill , supra .
Having upheld the constitutionality of Title II (Public Accommodations) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 both as respects businesses serving interstate travelers and businesses of a more local nature a substantial part of whose products have moved in commerce, Heart of Atlanta Motel, Inc., v. United States , 1964, 379 U.S. 241 , 85 S.Ct. 348 , 13 L.Ed.2d 258 ; Katzenbach v. McClung , 1964, 379 U.S. 294 , 85 S.Ct. 377 , 13 L.Ed.2d 290 , the Court in Hamm held that prosecutions under State anti-trespass statutes may not stand if the denial of service or the request for removal from the premises was based upon an intent to discriminate against the arrested persons on account of race.
The Court ruled that "The Civil Rights Act of 1964 forbids discrimination in places of public accommodation and removes peaceful attempts to be served on an equal basis from the category of punishable activities.
Although the conduct in the present cases occurred prior to enactment of the Act, the still pending convictions are abated by its passage."
The Court further said: In the removal petitions in the cases pending before this Court, it is explicitly alleged that the arrests of appellants "were effected for the sole purpose of aiding, abetting, and perpetuating customs, and usages which have deep historical and psychological roots in the mores and attitudes which exist within the City of Atlanta with respect to serving and seating members of the Negro race in such places of public accommodation and convenience upon a racially discriminatory basis and upon terms and conditions not imposed upon members of the so-called white or Caucasian race.
Members of the so-called white or Caucasian race are similarly treated and discriminated against when accompanied by members of the Negro race."
These are allegations of fact, which if true, place these prosecutions by the State of Georgia squarely within the principle announced by the Supreme Court in Hamm v. City of Rock Hill.
In its opinion, the Supreme Court pointed out that no State may now prosecute Negroes who were charged with having refused to leave premises in accordance with the provisions of the Georgia statute where the request to leave was based upon a policy of racial discrimination.
The Court pointed out that Section 203 of the Act provides: section 201 section 201 punish or attempt to punish any person for exercising or attempting to exercise any right or privilege secured by section 201 or 202 The Court said, "On its face, this language prohibits prosecution of any person for seeking service in a covered establishment, because of his race or color."
The Court then proceeded to apply this prohibition to pending as well as prospective prosecutions.
If therefore, the arrests and prosecutions of the appellants "were effected for the sole purpose of aiding, abetting and perpetuating customs with respect to serving and seating members of the Negro race" in the respective restaurants "upon a racially discriminatory basis," as alleged, then under the holding of the Supreme Court these prosecutions will have to be abated.
Because of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title II, and its recent interpretation by the Supreme Court, we hold that the allegations of these petitions are sufficient to invoke federal jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C.A. 1443(1) .
That statute provides, as it has provided since its enactment in 1866, a federal forum in civil actions and criminal prosecutions to vindicate, in certain circumstances, rights "under any law providing for the equal civil rights of citizens of the United States."
When the removal statute was originally enacted, the "law providing for equal civil rights" most clearly contemplated was found in sections 1977 and 1978 of the Revised Statutes, Strauder v. State of West Virginia , 1879, 100 U.S. 303, 311 , 25 L.Ed. 664 .
These sections formed part of the 1866 Civil Rights Act along with the removal provisions.
In upholding the constitutionality of the removal statute, the Supreme Court made it clear that that act was merely one legitimate way for Congress to ensure the effectiveness of the substantive provisions of the civil rights laws.
Strauder v. State of West Virginia , supra, at 310-312 .
The Court said, "A right or an immunity, whether enacted by the Constitution or only guaranteed by it, even without any express delegation of power, may be protected by Congress.
And one very efficient and appropriate mode of extending such protection and securing to a party the enjoyment of the right or immunity, is a law providing for the removal of his case from a State court, in which the right is denied by the State law, into a Federal court, where it will be upheld.
This is an ordinary mode of protecting rights and immunities conferred by the Federal Constitution and laws.
Sec. 641 [now 1443(1) ] is such a provision."
See also State of Virginia v. Rives , 1879, 100 U.S. 313, 318 , 25 L.Ed. 667 .
From its inception, then, the civil rights removal statute has been, as its language plainly contemplates, an adjunct to the substantive civil rights statutes enacted by Congress.
The history of the several codifications and recodifications of sections 1977 and 1978, of the several amendments and enlargements upon these seminal civil rights laws, and of the parallel codifications and recodifications of the removal statute which is presently 28 U.S.C.A. 1443(1) amply supports this view of the tenor of the statutory language.
(The history of these provisions is easily traceable through annotations in U.S.C.A.).
It can not be doubted that 1443(1) is today an adjunct of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
See New York v. Galamison , 2nd Cir., 1965, 342 F.2d 255 .
Particularly is this so in light of the references to the provision of a federal forum on removal for the protection of substantive civil rights in the act itself, Title IX, 901 , and in its legislative history.
See House Judiciary Committee Report reprinted in BNA, The Civil Rights Act of 1964, pp.
286-87; remarks of Senator Dodd, 110 Cong.Rec.
6739 (daily ed. April 6, 1964).
Congress, while carving out rights and immunities in the area of civil rights, has provided a jurisdictional basis for efficiently and appropriately protecting those rights and immunities in a federal forum.
The provision of this protective forum is not limited by the States' obligation, under the Supremacy Clause, to protect federally guaranteed civil rights as zealously as would a federal court.
That there is such on obligation on State tribunals is true, and vital, but it is irrelevant here.
Theoretically, there is no need for any federal jurisdiction at all--except that of the Supreme Court--because State courts are required to protect federally created rights.
Nevertheless, the power of Congress to provide a federal forum also to protect such rights is undoubted.
Such power was exercised in enacting 1443(1) .
The federally guaranteed right and immunity here pertinent were elucidated by the Supreme Court in Hamm v. City of Rock Hill , supra , as follows: 203(c) Under the allegations of the petitions in the present case, these appellants have been denied, because of State legislation, "a right under [a] law providing for the equal civil rights of citizens of the United States."
They are entitled to a federal forum as provided for in 28 U.S.C.A. Sec. 1443(1) in which to prove these allegations.
If the allegations are proved, then the federal court acquires jurisdiction for all purposes.
Under normal circumstances the state prosecutions would then proceed in the federal court.
Here, however, the finding of the jurisdictional fact immediately brings the Hamm case into play.
The same fact determination requires dismissal rather than further prosecution in the District Court.
3 Upon remand, therefore, the trial court should give appellants an opportunity to prove the allegations in the removal petition as to the purpose for the arrests and prosecutions, and in the event it is established that the removal of the appellants from the various places of public accommodation was done for racial reasons, then under authority of the Hamm case it would become the duty of the district court to order a dismissal of the prosecutions without further proceedings.
Concluding, as we do, that the petition for removal alleges sufficient grounds showing a denial of the civil rights of the appellants in the state courts by reason of the State statute, it follows that the order of remand was in error and it must be reversed and the case remanded to the district court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
