 McGOWAN , Circuit Judge.
These appeals are from convictions under two indictments charging appellant with violations of Section 7201 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
26 U.S.C. 7201 .
That statute imposes criminal sanctions upon "Any person who willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat" federal tax liability.
One indictment related to the year 1956; and the other to 1957, 1958, and 1959.
The 1959 count was dismissed by the Government at the outset of the trial, but the latter [**349] eventuated in jury findings of guilt as to the other years.
Concurrent sentences of confinement and fine were imposed.
Counsel have pressed upon us in brief and argument a large number of contentions, which vary greatly in their nature and substance.
As befits the seriousness of the consequences faced by appellant, we have examined them all, although we think it neither feasible nor necessary to deal with each of them herein.
The central and most substantial issue presented is whether a jury could permissibly have found from the evidence that appellant's conduct came within the proscription of the statute.
Although appellant's unsystematic and unorthodox manner of operations leaves some obscurities as to both method and motive, we believe the jury was entitled to find as it did.
Before coming to grips with that major question, we dispose of some of the other issues.
In no instance have we found occasion to disturb the convictions.
I 1.
The Statute of Limitations Appellant contends that prosecution under the indictment relating to 1956 was barred by the lapse of time.
This issue was first raised by a motion to dismiss in the court where the indictments were first returned in the spring of 1963, i. e. , the United States District Court for the Western District of Missouri.
That motion was denied by Judge Oliver in an opinion reported at 216 F.Supp.
645 .
It was renewed in advance of trial after the case was transferred at the appellant's request to the District of Columbia in May of 1963.
The motion was again denied by Judge Hart.
In view of Jaben v. United States , 381 U.S. 214 , 85 S.Ct. 1365 , 14 L.Ed.2d 345 (1965), decided while this appeal was under submission, we need refer to only one aspect of the issue.
The charge of evasion in respect of 1956 was first initiated by the filing of a complaint with the United States Commissioner in the Western District of Missouri on January 29, 1963.
If this complaint was founded upon an adequate showing of probable cause, it is clear that the 9-months extension proviso contained in the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. 6531 , was operative and comfortably embraced the time of the subsequent return of the indictment.
Jaben ends the argument as to that adequacy.
The representations made to the Commissioner in that case are virtually identical in form and substance with those involved here.
They were found to be sufficient by the Supreme Court there.
We must take them to be so here.
2.
The Fairness of the Trial Appellant insists that the outcome of his trial was significantly prejudiced in a number of ways, ranging from the denial of his request for a long continuance or a transfer of the case back to Missouri to allegedly improper characterizations by the prosecutor in his opening and closing arguments.
We do not find that any of these warrant reversal, and we confine our discussion to those upon which appellant's principal reliance is placed.
As noted above, this case was, at appellant's request, transferred in May of 1963 from Missouri to the District of Columbia for trial.
The District Court here granted appellant extensive discovery, which was to be completed by January 15, 1964, and the trial was scheduled for February 17 thereafter.
On February 4, appellant asked for a continuance until after the elections in November.
He represented that, beginning in September, 1963, the linkage of his name in the press with that of one Robert Baker had created political overtones which would make a fair trial impossible.
The Chief Judge heard the motion, and rejected the request for a continuance until after the elections, although he did fix April 13 as the new trial date.
He explicitly held that there was no reason to think that a fair trial could not be held in the current atmosphere.
Early in April appellant again sought a continuance, or alternatively, a transfer of the case back to Missouri.
These motions were heard and denied by Judge Hart, [**350] who was of the view that the scattered references in the papers to appellant from September, 1963, to February, 1964, did not create an unduly prejudicial atmosphere.
Judge Hart thought that appellant exaggerated the degree to which the citizens of Washington were aware of his existence--a surmise which was later supported by the fact that no one on the jury panel responded affirmatively to the voir dire question by defense counsel as to whether they had ever heard of the defendant.
The questions of the continuance and the transfer were well within the range of discretion committed to the trial court in the dispatch of its business; and we find no indication that this discretion was abused in any way.
Judge Hart examined with care the material submitted in support of the continuance; and he gave similar attention to the request for transfer, although that came at an unjustifiably late point in the proceedings.
We have no occasion to disagree with his conclusions.
A second area of complaint relates to assertedly prejudicial press publicity occurring in the course of the trial.
The jury were repeatedly cautioned to avoid the communications media with respect to the case. A mistrial was asked shortly after the trial started because of one headline in a Washington newspaper: "Baker Associate Black Goes On Trial for Evading $91,000 in U. S.
Taxes."
Although this is hardly a model of journalistic restraint under the circumstances, the jury had been cautioned earlier, and the defense did not press a suggestion that the jurors be interrogated about this headline.
The defense did not request at the outset that the jurors be sequestered throughout the trial and, indeed, appeared to be considerably less than happy (to the point of objection, indeed) with the court's sua sponte determination to effect such sequestration midway through the trial.
Our reading of the record suggests that the defense was quite conscious of the tactical pitfalls involved in too much insistence by it on elaborate and repetitive cautionary directions to the jury.
It strikes us in the large that, once the trial had started, it was conducted just about as the defense preferred it to be, caught as it was in this perennial dilemma of over or under-emphasizing the special circumstances of the defendant.
When an adverse jury verdict is being appealed, this dilemma, of course, dissolves in the singleness of the purpose to get a new trial and a new chance with another jury.
Thus, the prejudice proclaimed upon appeal may not have seemed to be such before the jury spoke.
We, in fairness to the trial court as well as to appellant, must appraise it in the latter context; and we find no error.
A mistrial was sought at the time of the prosecutor's opening statement because of a characterization of appellant as one who held himself out as informed and influential in the ways of Washington.
The trial court denied the request, but was alert to instruct the jury as to the non-evidentiary nature of opening statements and that it should not form opinions on the basis of them.
It is also asserted that the trial was unfair because the prosecution lost no opportunity to refer to the parties and entertainments involved in appellant's expenses.
The thrust of these arguments is essentially that appellant was tried, in substance if not in form, for some vaguely criminal offense of influence-peddling in addition to, or instead of, that of income tax evasion; and that determination of the latter charges must certainly have been affected by the former.
The nature of appellant's own evidence was necessarily such, however, as to suggest that appellant's business activities were not of a wholly conventional nature; and we do not think the comments at the trial equated this with illegality.
It was in appellant's interest to show large expense deductions, and he made the most of it.
This could not help but paint the picture of a somewhat unusual business activity.
Thus, such difficulties as this may have caused appellant seem to us inherent in his situation when accused of tax fraud--an accusation which was first [**351] made in Missouri long before his activities in Washington began to be revealed there.
We do not believe that the record contains reversible error because of the references now claimed to be prejudicial.
1 II The theory of the Government's case against appellant is that, in respect of the years 1956-58, he received a total of $140,087.04 in income items which were not reported on his returns.
Appellant's response to this, so it seems to us, is alternative in nature: He argues, first, that the Government failed to prove that these items were not reimbursements for expenditures made by him for the benefit of certain clients, involving no taxable gain to himself; and, secondly, that, even if the receipts did represent taxable income, he lacks the requisite criminal intent since he relied upon agents to prepare his returns from the information, assertedly complete, available to them.
We examine these two points in their logical order, as just stated, and against the evidence of record relevant to each.
There is no significant dispute that appellant did receive some $140,000 more than he reported.
This was made up of payments received from one individual and four companies.
These last paid appellant other sums during the same period, which sums were shown on Forms W-2 or 1099 2 filed by the payors, and which were included in appellant's returns.
Appellant's returns as filed listed substantial amounts of expense deductions, but there was in each case a balance of taxable income; thus, the expenses claimed did not absorb the receipts reported, much less those that were not.
[**352] Appellant, a native of Missouri, was in the consulting and public relations business.
In 1955 he set up a Missouri corporation in Joplin, known as Blyco Corp.
It was organized for him by his longstanding friend and attorney, Ralph Baird.
The corporation had space in Baird's Joplin law office, and Baird was one of the corporation's officers and stockholders.
Although Blyco Corp. was apparently designed to be the vehicle for appellant's business operations, he continued to function independently and for his own account.
The record does not disclose clearly why this was so.
It only shows a considerable overlapping of his and Blyco's activities.
The way the unreported receipts in question came to appellant requires at least a summary of his relationships with the five payors: 1.
Darby .
2.
Jones Bros.
Construction Co. 3.
M-P Construction Co. 4.
Howard Foundry Co. 5.
Aeronca Manufacturing Company .
[**353] For each of the years in question, appellant claimed, and was largely allowed, certain deductions on his return.
These deductions appear similar to the transactions for which appellant was presumably being reimbursed by the payors just mentioned.
Thus it is that appellant may fairly be taken to know that he needed to report these receipts and submit his own expense deductions to the Government by an appropriate deduction in his return.
He appears not to have operated on the assumption that his payors' expenses, paid for by him with their funds, was a matter between them and the Government as to which he had no responsibility.
Such an assumption is, of course, hardly compatible with appellant's failure to submit to the payors itemized explanations of the expenses for which reimbursement was assertedly being made.
The question would seem to be whether the Government is entitled to get to the jury on a showing of substantial unreported receipts of alleged expense reimbursements, when there is no explanation by either the payor or the payee of what use was made of the money.
Here there is no issue as to whether appellant received the money.
Neither is there any doubt that it was omitted from his income tax returns.
It is now characterized as reimbursement of expenses, but the fact and nature of those expenditures are not established.
May the jury infer wilful evasion, within the meaning of the statute, from this evidence?
We are not unmindful that this is a criminal case, and that the proof is to be weighed in an appropriately exacting balance.
We think, however, that in this state of the record the jury could, if it chose, bring in a sustainable verdict of guilt.
3 There [**354] is that in the evidence which could justify a conclusion that appellant wilfully followed a course of evading his income tax liabilities by arranging to receive large sums of money for which he did not account in any way.
Where the Government was known to be on notice by means of W-2 or 1099 forms, there was reporting of sums received; and, where such notice did not exist, reporting was ordinarily withheld.
This is a recognizable pattern which emerges from the Government's case, and which could have caused the jury reasonably to conclude that it constituted a conscious and knowing deception.
We turn now to appellant's defense that the most he was guilty of was hiring incompetent and unreliable agents to handle his income taxes--a lapse which may perhaps expose one to civil penalties for failure to pay the taxes properly owing, but not to criminal punishment.
The relationship between appellant and his associates, Ralph Baird and James Muskrat, is central to this issue.
Baird, as has been said, was an old friend.
He had served as appellant's attorney on various occasions since the beginning of his practice in 1938.
When the appellant desired to establish his own public relations business in 1955, he used a room in Baird's Joplin, Missouri, law office as headquarters, most of appellant's time being spent travelling or in Washington.
And, from this date, Baird played a prominent part in appellant's business, including the role already described in respect of Blyco Corp.
He drafted contracts for appellant, as well as engaging in some travel and consultation work on his behalf.
At the direction of appellant, Baird obtained the services of an accountant, James Muskrat, to prepare appellant's personal tax returns.
Muskrat prepared appellant's returns for the years in question and also prepared the Blyco Corp. returns for 1957 and 1958.
Appellant's files, records, and bank statements were available to him.
But Muskrat's instructions were indefinite, and the supervision exercised by appellant was sporadic.
When Muskrat did not know how to handle a particular item, he would consult with Baird.
Appellant maintains that Baird and Muskrat possessed all the information necessary for preparing an accurate return and that he relied upon them to do so. 4 He testified that Baird was responsible for maintaining, assembling and keeping the records of his activities; that all records accumulated during his travels were sent to Baird; and that the entire accounting operation for both his own activities and those of Blyco Corp. were entrusted to Baird and Muskrat.
He further testified that he kept Baird informed of all his receipts.
5 If appellant did in fact account so fully to Baird, Muskrat was apparently unaware of it.
He testified that he had no knowledge of most of the checks that were alleged to be unreported income, although he could not be sure that there was not, somewhere in the correspondence files, documentation of those receipts.
Nor did the manner in which Muskrat prepared the apppellant's returns [**355] reflect the existence of any regular method of accounting to the Joplin office.
For the 1956 return, Muskrat was given a listing of hotel expenses, W-2 forms, and bills.
Appellant was present while the return was being prepared, and both appellant and Baird orally gave Muskrat information as to what was to go into the return.
Appellant, although personally present and actively participating, did not advise Muskrat of any income except that shown on the return.
More time was spent in preparing the 1957 return, but again the procedures followed seem haphazard.
Muskrat testified: "I carried on what I had started on the 1956 return, with no clear setting out of duties or instructions or anything.
Just the ultimate result to accumulate the information for the tax return."
His primary concern was obtaining a total on expenses; and, again, some expense information was obtained orally from both Baird and appellant.
Muskrat wrote appellant, questioning him as to his income for 1957, but there is no indication that the letter was ever sent.
In any event, Muskrat discussed Black's income with Baird, and the income used on the return was that reflected in either 1099 or W-2 forms.
That Muskrat was not receiving adequate information seems evident from his changed procedure in constructing the 1958 return.
Because he was dissatisfied with the way previous returns had been put together and because appellant's business was expanding, Muskrat began, on his own initiative, to maintain books for the appellant.
6 These books contained an income account in which he entered all income items, as well as other unidentifiable deposits that were necessary to balance the books.
He would ask Baird about the unidentifiable items, sometimes receiving an explanation.
At the end of the year, income reflected on 1099 and W-2 forms exceeded the amount stated in the income account, so he did not attempt to reconcile the two, but merely used the income reflected on the forms in making up the return.
Baird, on the other hand, showed a greater familiarity with appellant's affairs.
He admitted knowing of most of the compensation arrangements appellant made with the five employers in question, but he denied knowledge of some particular receipts.
As to the checks from W. E. Darby, Baird testified that he was satisfied from his own participation in the matter that the checks represented expenses incurred on behalf of Darby.
Although he disclaimed knowing how much appellant had received, he testified that he knew of the arrangement with Jones Brothers Construction Co.
He knew of appellant's relationship with the M-P Construction Co. And the arrangements with Howard Foundry and Aeronca were also familiar to him.
Baird insisted, however, that his responsibility was limited to accumulating expense information and that it did not extend to assembling appellant's income data.
7 But the record suggests otherwise.
Whatever his precise responsibilities, he did engage to some extent in preparing income information for appellant's return.
He advised Muskrat [**356] on the treatment of various receipts.
On at least one occasion he wrote the appellant to obtain information about his receipts.
Furthermore, since he was responsible for the Blyco Corp. tax returns, which included allocating income between the overlapping activities of appellant and Blyco, any failure by Baird to consider appellant's receipts seems improbable.
There is correspondence between Baird and the appellant designating specific sources of income as belonging to the corporation.
That letter, in March, 1958, clearly shows Baird's participation in the reporting of appellant's income.
The letter concerned appellant's estimated declaration of taxes for 1958; in it, Baird reviewed appellant's income (based on certain assumptions) and outlined two methods for arriving at the estimated declaration.
The inference is clear that Baird's participation with Muskrat in the preparation of appellant's tax returns was not limited to expenses.
Rather, the conclusion suggested is that Baird was overseeing all of Muskrat's performance.
From this testimony, very little appears either to support or to refute appellant's testimony that information as to every receipt was passed to Baird in Joplin.
Muskrat's testimony suggests that there was no such reporting, or at least that the manner of doing so was so disorganized as to have been of no assistance to him.
Even the expense deductions, for example, could not be completed without obtaining information from the appellant.
Baird, the central figure in this controversy, was not questioned about the adequacy of the information that he received from the appellant, although he did state that what he received was made available to Muskrat and that he did not know of many of the specific transactions that were unreported.
That Baird did know generally of the appellant's compensation arrangements and did know that some of appellant's receipts were not reported on the tax returns, of course, does not necessarily mean that appellant told Baird of his receipts.
Equally reasonable is the explanation that Baird acquired such information in the course of other duties on behalf of the appellant.
This raises critically the question of appellant's reliance on Baird and Muskrat.
How is Baird's failure to ensure the accuracy of appellant's return, in light of his knowledge of the unreported receipts, to be understood?
That he was negligent is belied by the fact that during this same period the accounting for Blyco proceeded in a more orderly fashion.
Counsel for the appellant suggests that perhaps Baird's behavior can be attributed to his self-interest in seeing that Blyco Corp. obtained the benefit of appellant's deductions.
This allegation, however, is supported only by some evidence that the deductions on Blyco's returns increased in 1958 while those of appellant diminished.
Furthermore, no glimmer of such behavior emerged from Muskrat's testimony, and he was preparing the returns for both parties.
For some reason, Baird did not think it necessary to report the receipts that were not reflected on 1099 forms.
8 Apparently, this was not a decision based upon Baird's understanding of the reporting requirements.
9 In any event, the [**357] inference seems reasonable that, in this matter, appellant placed something less than total reliance on Baird and that appellant was not unaware of the omission of substantial receipts from his tax returns.
The record below does not show appellant to be unconcerned with the preparation of his tax returns.
To the contrary, he personally participated to a considerable extent in their preparation.
In 1956 he was present while the returns were prepared, assisting by examining his bank statements to locate deductible items.
Other returns were not completed without obtaining his advice on various expense deductions.
Appellant was well aware of the tax implications of his compensation arrangements, to the extent of demanding that the amounts paid him for expenses be not reflected on 1099 information returns because it would burden him with a higher tax.
10 Nor does appellant's characterization of Baird as the person with complete responsibility for the financial aspects of his business appear strictly accurate.
Expense checks were frequently mailed directly to the appellant, by-passing the Joplin office.
Other checks, at appellant's request, were made payable to and sent directly to the hotels appellant was using.
Often appellant would request additional money from his employers, and on at least one occasion he complained about delinquent payments.
When this is added to his previously established concern that expense money be not reported on 1099 forms and his obvious awareness and control of the financial arrangements he made, the conclusion that appellant was quite the master of his own business seems thoroughly justified.
From this evidence, a jury could certainly infer that the accountant, Muskrat, did not have adequate information.
Whether the appellant notified Baird of all of his receipts is perhaps less clear.
The reporting to Baird occurred, if at all, in an informal manner, and its completeness is left very much in doubt by the record.
Few indicia of any regular method of reporting are present.
Checks and letters regularly by-passed the Joplin office.
The accountant who was supposed to have access to these materials gave credible testimony of never having seen the items.
Indeed, the construction of the returns themselves suggests a lack of information.
Furthermore, it could reasonably be inferred that appellant, contrary to his own testimony, did not rely completely upon the judgment of Baird and Muskrat.
Rather, he appeared to have considerable appreciation for the income tax implications of his activities.
His correspondence with Baird suggests that Baird would not make such a decision without consulting appellant.
Finally, appellant's participation in the preparation of the returns suggests that Baird and Muskrat did not possess the responsibility he attributed to them.
It may be that some or all of the unreported receipts were not retained by appellant for his personal benefit in the ordinary sense.
One engaged in his business has perhaps to face some delicate problems of identification and characterization in the itemization of expenses.
It may not be possible to serve both client and Commissioner at the same time.
But, if it is the latter who is sacrificed, that choice is no less knowing and wilful because of the harsh dilemma which occasions it.
We think this record was [**358] such as to enable a jury to feel free of reasonable doubt in its conclusion that appellant made a wilful decision to ignore his responsibilities under the federal income tax law.
Affirmed.
