 PER CURIAM.
This is an appeal from the denial of appellant's writ of habeas corpus by the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey.
This court fully considered all the points now raised by appellant on the occasion of his first appeal to this court, United States ex rel.
Smith v. State of New Jersey , 322 F.2d 810 (C.A.3, 1963), and we consider that opinion dispositive.
Appellant, however, urges that his rights must now be considered in the light of Townsend v. Sain , 372 U.S. 293 , 83 S.Ct. 745 , 9 L.Ed.2d 770 (1963).
The short answer to this contention is that the entire court considered this proposition on the first appeal.
Townsend v. Sain was decided after the argument on Smith's first appeal, but before the case was decided and before the denial of Smith's petition for rehearing en banc by the majority of the entire court.
Indeed, one of Smith's bases for requesting rehearing en banc was that Townsend v. Sain required this court to remand the case for a plenary hearing, and Smith's petition recites that "When Townsend v. Sain was decided, after the oral argument of this case, counsel advised this court by letter that appellant would rely on that case with regard to his right to a full hearing."
Thus both the original panel and the entire court considered the application of Townsend v. Sain to this case on the first appeal.
Moreover, it is clear that Townsend v. Sain is simply not relevant to this case now, nor was it on the first appeal because Smith was offered an evidentiary hearing on the first petition for a writ in the district court, and he rejected the offer.
The record of this proceeding shows that the district court was very concerned that the record before it be full and complete and that Smith have every opportunity to put in the record all that he thought essential: Later on in the same proceedings, Smith's then-attorney stated: The United States Supreme Court says your Honor may hold a hearing de novo if need be to go into the historical facts behind this case.
I don't think it is necessary here Thus there can be no doubt that the district court offered, and Smith's counsel rejected, an evidentiary hearing.
The order of the district court will be affirmed.
