 GEWIN , Circuit Judge: The United States and appellees filed motions in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Alabama on August 17, 1967, and February 7, 1968, requesting the district court to require appellants to take further steps to eliminate the dual school system in Montgomery County, Alabama.
Hearings were held on September 5, 1967 and February 9, 1968.
The district court entered its order on February 24, 1968, amended March 2, 1968, granting specific relief in the areas of faculty desegregation, student teacher and substitute teacher desegregation, school construction, student transportation, and student choices regarding newly constructed schools.
This appeal followed.
We affirm the order of the district court as hereinafter modified.
We see no need to recite the history of the school board's efforts to comply with the constitutional mandate to desegregate its public schools.
However, we note that progress has been made and that the school board has been complimented on its good faith efforts.
We do not wish unduly to emphasize or de-emphasize good faith on the part of this particular board of education, but we do take note of the fact that this is the very first time it has been before this court.
This case does not bear the "many service stripes" mentioned in United States v. Board of Education of Bessemer , 5 Cir. 1968, 396 F.2d 44 .
See also Davis v. Board of School Commissioners of Mobile County , 393 F.2d 690 (5 Cir. 1968).
1 In our view, good faith conduct on the part of any litigant in any court, especially a court of equity and, more particularly, in the sensitive area of desegregation, is a vital element for appropriate consideration.
Our feeling with respect to good faith is buttressed by the recent decision of the Supreme Court in Green v. County School Board of New Kent County , 391 U.S. 430 , 88 S.Ct. 1689 , 20 L.Ed.2d 716 (1968).
2 Some five times, during the period from 1964 to 1967, the district court publicly complimented the Montgomery County School Board on its efforts toward achieving desegregation.
3 It is not necessary to discuss all of the provisions of the district court's order.
Appellants challenge that portion of the order which directs them (1) to assign and transfer faculty members, student teachers, and substitute teachers throughout all schools in the system and from one school to another according to a fixed mathematical ratio based on race, and (2) to give affirmative preference to Negro students who choose to attend a newly constructed high school.
That part of the court's order challenged on appeal is set forth below: I. FACULTY AND STAFF Statement of Objective Schedule for Faculty Desegregation 1968-69 Means of Accomplishment Substitute Teachers Student Teachers Night Schools Honoring Choices The district court denied appellees' request that the ratio of white to Negro faculty members in new schools be approximately three to two in their first year of operation.
Appellees have cross-appealed on this issue.
I ASSIGNMENT OF TEACHERS It is clear from the record and briefs that appellants fully recognize that they have the affirmative duty to desegregate the faculties throughout their entire school system.
They have been striving to carry out this duty by seeking and encouraging voluntary transfers of teachers and by requesting new teachers to accept positions in schools where their race is in the minority.
Appellants further recognize that they have the legal right to compel faculty assignment if voluntary placement is not effective.
4 However, appellants object to the district court's order requiring assignment of teachers on the ground that such is not in keeping with sound and quality school administration.
We quote from appellants' brief: In Beckett v. School Board of City of Norfolk, Virginia , 269 F.Supp.
118 at page 139 (E.D.Va.
May, 1967) the Court stated, in considering faculty desegregation: Wheeler v. Durham City Board of Education 363 F.2d 738 Moreover, such a practice would not be in accord with sound educational principles The question of whether a school board is obligated to assign teachers to schools where their race is in the minority when efforts to persuade teachers voluntarily to accept such positions fail, has recently been before this court.
United States v. Board of Educ. of Bessemer , supra .
That opinion answers the above question with an emphatic yes .
We quote: Davis v. Board of School Commissioners of Mobile County 393 F.2d 690 Jefferson We therefore find no error in the court's order requiring the assignment of teachers since efforts to achieve faculty desegregation by voluntary means have failed.
