 ELY , Circuit Judge: This is an interlocutory appeal, under 28 U.S.C. 1292(b) , from an Order of the District Court, staying habeas corpus proceedings brought under 28 U.S.C. 2241 until trial and final determination of court-martial charges then lodged against the appellant.
The complex history of the case is set out in detail in the margin.
1 Briefly, Parisi is an army private who alleges that his application for discharge as a conscientious objector was denied by the army without a basis in fact for the denial.
His petition was first presented to the District Court in November, 1969, but proceedings were stayed pending his administrative appeal to the Army Board for Correction of Military Records [ABCMR].
2 A partial preliminary injunction also issued, prohibiting Parisi's assignment to any duties which required materially greater participation in combat activity or training than was being required of him in his then duties.
Before the ABCMR's decision, however, Parisi was ordered to Viet Nam, where he was to perform noncombatant duties similar to those which had been assigned to him and which he had been performing in this country.
After unsuccessful attempts to win a stay of his redeployment order both from our court and from the Circuit Justice, Parisi chose, with all attendant risks, to disobey a military order to enplane for Viet Nam.
Charges were then immediately filed against him, under U.C.M.J.
art.
90, for failure to obey a lawful order.
Prior to the date set for court-martial, the ABCMR notified Parisi that it had ruled against his appeal.
The District Court promptly ordered the Government to show cause why a writ should not then issue.
In its return, the Government, requested the stay Order in question, on the grounds that to permit concurrent federal court proceedings would constitute an unwarranted interference with the military court system.
The question is not an easy one, but we have concluded that habeas proceedings were properly stayed pending the final conclusion of Parisi's military trial and his appeals therefrom.
The military, no less an agency of the federal government than the federal court system, has the equal responsibility to act consistently with the Constitution and laws of the United States.
3 While civilian courts are available to correct, in a proper case, abuses by military authorities, 4 they must be careful to avoid unwarranted interference with internal military matters.
Orloff v. Willoughby , 345 U.S. 83, 93-94 , 73 S.Ct. 534, 540 , 97 L.Ed. 842 (1953).
Thus, there is the general rule that: Noyd v. Bond , 395 U.S. 683, 693 , 89 S.Ct. 1876, 1882 , 23 L.Ed.2d 631 , (1969).
5 Parisi does not argue the wisdom and correctness of the exhaustion of administrative remedies doctrine as applied to military proceedings.
He strenuously contends, however, that the doctrine was improperly applied in the court below.
First, Parisi argues that the doctrine applies only to administrative, not judicial remedies.
The risk of imprisonment and dishonorable discharge inherent in military judicial proceedings, he claims, renders it unfair to require one first to assert his claims as defenses at a military trial before being able, successfully, to initiate habeas proceedings in a federal civilian court.
In support of this argument, Parisi relies, primarily, upon Crane v. Hedrick , 284 F.Supp.
250 (N.D.Cal.1968).
There, it appears that the district judge expressly rejected Government contentions that a claim of wrongful detention in the military by an inservice conscientious objector must first be raised as a defense to court-martial, noting that 284 F.Supp.
at 253 .
However, assuming, arguendo , the correctness of Crane , the case is distinguishable.
Crane was a sailor who deserted his ship after his application for conscientious objector discharge was administratively denied, but before formal charges were brought against him in military court.
We note the reasoning, on similar facts, 6 of Judge Kaufman in Hammond v. Lenfest , 398 F.2d 705 (2d Cir. 1968): 398 F.2d at 714 .
This reasoning is inapposite to Parisi's case, for when the District Court issued the Order here challenged, charges had then already been filed against Parisi by the military authorities, the tribunal that was to judge him had already been convened, and the trial itself was imminent.
Parisi was not under the burden of being required to commit a further military "crime" in order to provide himself with a forum.
He had already done the act alleged to be unlawful.
Thus, we cannot see that either Crane or Hammond supports Parisi's argument.
7 In Gann v. Wilson , 289 F.Supp.
191 (N.D.Cal.1968), an inservice conscientious objector was granted habeas relief during the pendency of his Article 90 court-martial for failure to obey orders which were given after administrative denial of his application for conscientious objector discharge.
But Gann relied solely on Crane and Hammond , supra , and we think that such reliance was misplaced.
8 Here, the District Court relied upon In re Kelly , 401 F.2d 211 (5th Cir. 1968), wherein the Fifth Circuit upheld a stay order on facts very similar to those before us. 9 Parisi attempts to distinguish Kelly , arguing that there, habeas was invoked after formal court-martial charges were lodged, whereas he sought habeas before he committed the disobedience leading to the military charges against him. 10 However, Parisi's November 1969 petition was prematurely filed under our rule in Craycroft v. Ferrall , 408 F.2d 587 (9th Cir. 1968), vacated and remanded, 397 U.S. 335 , 90 S.Ct. 1152 , 25 L.Ed.2d 351 (1970).
When the ABCMR ruled in March 1970, satisfying the administrative exhaustion requirement, Parisi renewed his petition, as was proper, but he, at that time, was already facing court-martial.
Thus, he is in the same position as was Kelly in the Fifth Circuit.
We are not blind to the possible moral dilemma that Parisi faced.
We cannot quarrel with the proposition that disobedience based on the dictates of religious conscience is based on "an obligation, superior to that due the state, of not participating in war in any form."
United States v. Seeger , 380 U.S. 163, 172 , 85 S.Ct. 850, 857 , 13 L.Ed.2d 733 (1965).
However, the District Court's injunction was reasonable and afforded ample protection for Parisi's religious scruples.
Three judges of our court and our Circuit Justice found that the military order for Parisi's redeployment did not, in the circumstances, violate the District Court's protective order.
While Parisi may honestly have disagreed, that disagreement cannot be held to have justified his unilateral determination to defy his military superiors, not to mention the federal judges who had considered and rejected his claim.
Were every soldier dissatisfied with some phase of national policy or military effort allowed to exercise similar discretion, necessary military discipline would collapse.
Had Parisi bided his time, it appears, on the record before us now, that he likely would have obtained the relief he sought from the District Court.
If the fruits of his impatience are bitter, he has only himself to blame for their production.
A serviceman facing court-martial should not be permitted habeas relief in a federal court during the pendency of his military trial and appeals therefrom, except, perhaps, when it might appear that no military tribunal to which he has recourse is capable of granting an appropriate remedy.
In possible anticipation of this qualified conclusion, Parisi argues that the relief he sought in the District Court is in fact elsewhere unavailable.
This argument is based on two grounds.
First, Parisi asserts that denial of an application for conscientious objector discharge without a basis in fact is not recognized as a defense to an Article 90 court-martial.
Second, he argues that even if his claim were a good defense, and established to the satisfaction of the military court, the only remedy he could there expect would be acquittal, not the honorable discharge that might be ordered by a District Court.
Were this true, we would hesitate to subject Parisi to the rigors of a fruitless series of appeals; however, we are not convinced that he is correct in his interpretation of the existing state of military law.
Parisi supports the first of the arguments now under discussion only by his interpretation of certain of the rulings of the military judge at his court-martial.
11 It appears to us, however, that if error in the military court is indicated, it is not that the military judge refused to review the merits of Parisi's conscientious objector claim, but that he may have adopted an improperly narrow standard for review thereof.
This is surely an appropriate point to present to the military's appellate tribunals, and we are referred to no case from the Court of Military Appeals, the highest military court, indicating that an appropriate constitutional standard will not be required.
12 Parisi is also unable to support his contention that the military appellate tribunals are unable to grant him a discharge no matter what his defense is.
We are not now prepared to assume that, if it is determined that Parisi's application for discharge was denied without basis in fact, an error of such constitutional magnitude cannot be rectified by a reviewing court within the military system.
13 If it should eventually come to pass that the military courts will not apply those constitutional principles which must control their decisions, as well as ours, Parisi may then bring that fact to the attention of the District Court.
Affirmed.
