 BOREMAN , Circuit Judge: Present Negro employees of the Dan River Steam Station of Duke Power Company in Draper, North Carolina, in a class action with the class defined as themselves and those Negro employees who subsequently may be employed at the Dan River Steam Station and all Negroes who may hereafter seek employment at the station, appeal from a judgment of the district court dismissing their complaint brought under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
(Duke Power Company will be referred to sometimes as Duke or the company.)
The plaintiffs challenge the validity of the company's promotion and transfer system, which involves the use of general intelligence and mechanical ability tests, alleging racial discrimination and denial of equal opportunity to advance into jobs classified above the menial laborer category.
Duke is a corporation engaged in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power to the general public in North Carolina and South Carolina.
At the time this action was instituted, Duke had 95 employees at its Dan River Station, fourteen of whom were Negroes, thirteen of whom are plaintiffs in this action.
The work force at Dan River is divided for operational purposes into five main departments: (1) Operations; (2) Maintenance; (3) Laboratory and Test; (4) Coal Handling; and (5) Labor.
The positions of Watchman, Clerk and Storekeeper are in a miscellaneous category.
The employees in the Operations Department are responsible for the operation of the station's generating equipment, such as boilers, turbines, auxiliary and control equipment, and the electrical substation.
They handle also interconnections between the station, the company's power system, and the systems of other power companies.
The Maintenance Department is responsible for maintenance of all the mechanical and electrical equipment and machinery in the plant.
Technicians working in the Laboratory Department analyze water to determine its fitness for use in the boilers and run analyses of coal samples to ascertain the quality of the coal for use as fuel in the power station.
Test Department personnel are responsible for the performance of the station by maintaining the accuracy of instruments, gauges and control devices.
Employees in the Coal Handling Department unload, weigh, sample, crush, and transport coal received from the mines.
In so doing, they operate diesel and electrical equipment, bulldozers, conveyor belts, crushers and other heavy equipment items.
They must be able to read and understand manuals relating to such machinery and equipment.
The Labor Department provides service to all other departments and is responsible generally for the janitorial services in the plant.
Its employees mix mortar, collect garbage, help construct forms, clean bolts, and provide the necessary labor involved in performing other miscellaneous jobs.
The Labor Department is the lowest paid, with a maximum wage of $1.565 per hour, which is less than the minimum of $1.705 per hour paid to any other employee in the plant.
Maximum wages paid to employees in other departments range from $3.18 per hour to $3.65 per hour.
Within each department specialized job classifications exist, and these classifications constitute a line of progression for purposes of employee advancement.
Promotions within departments are made at Dan River as vacancies occur.
Normally, the senior man in the classification directly below that in which the vacancy occurs will be promoted, if qualified to perform the job.
Training for promotions within departments is not formalized, as employees are given on-the-job training within departments.
In transferring from one department to another, an employee usually goes in at the entry level; however, at Dan River an employee is potentially able to move into another department above the entry level, depending on his qualifications.
In 1955, approximately nine years prior to the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and some eleven years prior to the institution of this action, Duke Power initiated a new policy as to hiring and advancement; a high school education or its equivalent was thenceforth required for all new employees, except as to those in the Labor Department.
The new policy also required an incumbent employee to have a high school education or its equivalent before he could be considered for advancement from the Labor Department or the position of Watchman into Coal Handling, Operations or Maintenance or for advancement from Coal Handling into Operations or Maintenance.
The company claims that this policy was instituted because it realized that its business was becoming more complex and that there were some employees who were unable to adjust to the increasingly more complicated work requirements and thus unable to advance through the company's lines of progression.
The company subsequently amended its promotion and transfer requirements by providing that an employee who was on the company payroll prior to September 1, 1965, and who did not have a high school education or its equivalent, could become eligible for transfer or promotion from Coal Handling, Watchman or Labor positions into Operating, Maintenance or other higher classified jobs by taking and passing two tests, known as the Wonderlic general intelligence test and the Bennett Mechanical AA general mechanical test, with scores equivalent to those achieved by an average high school graduate.
The company admits that this change was made in response to requests from employees in Coal Handling for a means of escape from that department but the same opportunity was also provided for employees in the Labor Department.
Until 1966, no Negro had ever held a position at Dan River in any department other than the Labor Department.
On August 6, 1966, more than a year after July 2, 1965, the effective date of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the first Negro was promoted out of the Labor Department, as Jesse C. Martin (who had a high school education) was advanced into Coal Handling.
He was subsequently promoted to utility operator on March 18, 1968.
H. E. Martin, a Negro with a high school education, was promoted to Watchman on March 19, 1968, and subsequently to the position of Learner in Coal Handling.
Another Negro, R. A. Jumper, was promoted to Watchman and then to Trainee for Test Assistant on May 7, 1968.
These three were the only Negroes employed at Dan River who had high school educations.
Recently, another Negro, Willie Boyd, completed a course which is recognized and accepted as equivalent to a high school education; thereby he became eligible for advancement under current company policies.
Insufficient time has elapsed in which to determine whether or not Boyd will be advanced without discrimination, but it does appear that the company is not now discriminating in its promotion and transfer policies against Negro employees who have a high school education or its equivalent.
The plaintiff Negro employees admit that at the present time Duke has apparently abandoned its policy of restricting all Negroes to the Labor Department; but the plaintiffs complain that the educational and testing requirements preserve and continue the effects of Duke's past racial discrimination, thereby violating the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
1 The district court found that prior to July 2, 1965, the effective date of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Negroes were relegated to the Labor Department and deprived of access to other departments by reason of racial discrimination practiced by the company.
This finding is fully supported by the evidence.
However, the district court also held that Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 does not encompass the present and continuing effects of past discrimination.
This holding is in conflict with other persuasive authority and is disapproved.
While it is true that the Act was intended to have prospective application only, relief may be granted to remedy present and continuing effects of past discrimination.
Local 53 of International Association of Heat and Frost Insulators and Asbestos Workers v. Vogler , 407 F.2d 1047, 1052 (5 Cir. 1969); United States v. Local 189 , 282 F.Supp.
39, 44 (E.D.La.1968), aff'd, 416 F.2d 980 (5 Cir. 1969); Quarles v. Philip Morris, Inc. , 279 F.Supp.
505, 516 (E.D.Va.1968).
See , United States v. Hayes International Corporation , 415 F.2d 1038 (5 Cir. 1969) (Sept. 16, 1969).
In Quarles , it was directly held that present and continuing consequences of past discrimination are covered by the Act, the court stating, "It is also apparent that Congress did not intend to freeze an entire generation of Negro employees into discriminatory patterns that existed before the act."
Quarles v. Philip Morris, Inc. , supra , 279 F.Supp.
at 516 .
The Quarles decision was expressly approved and followed in United States v. Local 189 , supra , as the district court, with subsequent approval of the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, struck down a seniority system which had the effect of perpetuating discrimination. "
[W]here, as here, 'job seniority' operates to continue the effects of past discrimination, it must be replaced *."
United States v. Local 189 , supra at 45 .
In Local 53 of International Association of Heat and Frost Insulators and Asbestos Workers v. Volger , 407 F.2d 1047, 1052 (5 Cir. 1969), the court said: "Where necessary to ensure compliance with the Act, the District Court was fully empowered to eliminate the present effects of past discrimination."
Those six Negro employee-plaintiffs without a high school education or its equivalent who were discriminatorily hired only into the Labor Department prior to Duke's institution of the educational requirement in 1955 were simply locked into the Labor Department by the adoption of this requirement.
Yet, on the other hand, many white employees who likewise did not have a high school education or its equivalent had already been hired into the better departments and were free to remain there and be promoted or transferred into better, higher paying positions.
Thus, it is clear that those six plaintiff Negro employees without a high school education or its equivalent who were hired prior to the adoption of the educational requirement are entitled to relief; the educational requirement shall not be invoked as an absolute bar to advancement, but must be waived as to these plaintiffs and they shall be entitled to nondiscriminatory consideration for advancement to other departments if and when job openings occur.
Likewise, as to these same six Negro plaintiffs, the testing requirements established in 1965 are also discriminatory.
The testing requirements, as will be fully explained later in this opinion, were established as an approximate equivalent to a high school education for advancement purposes.
Since the adoption of the high school education requirement was discriminatory as to these six Negro employees and the tests are used as an approximate equivalent for advancement purposes, it must follow that the testing requirements were likewise discriminatory as to them.
These six plaintiffs had to pass these tests in order to escape from the Labor Department while their white counterparts, many of whom also did not have a high school education, had been hired into departments other than the Labor Department and therefore were not required to take the tests.
Therefore, as to these six plaintiffs, the testing requirements must also be waived and shall not be invoked as a bar to their advancement.
Next, we consider the rights of the second group of plaintiffs, those four Negro employees without a high school education or its equivalent who were hired into the Labor Department after the institution of the educational requirement.
We find that they are not entitled to relief for the reasons to be hereinafter assigned.
In determining the rights of this second group of plaintiffs, it is necessary to analyze and determine the validity of Duke's educational and testing requirements under the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
We have found no cases directly in point.
The Negro employee-plaintiffs contend that the requirements continue the effects of past discrimination and, therefore, must be struck down as invalid under the Act.
We find ourselves unable to agree with that contention.
Plaintiffs claim that Duke's educational and testing requirements are discriminatory and invalid because: (1) there is no evidence showing a business need for the requirements; (2) Duke Power did not conduct any studies to discern whether or not such requirements were related to an employee's ability to perform his duties; and (3) the tests were not job-related, and 703(h) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e-2 (h) , requires tests to be job-related in order to be valid.
The company admits that it initiated the requirements without making formal studies as to the relationship or bearing such requirements would have upon its employees' ability to perform their duties.
But, Duke claims that the policy was instituted because its business was becoming more complex, it had employees who were unable to grasp situations, to read, to reason, and who did not have an intelligence level high enough to enable them to progress upward through the company's line of advancement.
Pointing out that it uses an intracompany promotion system to train its own employees for supervisory positions inside the company rather than hire supervisory personnel from outside, Duke claims that it initiated the high school education requirement, at least partially, so that it would have some reasonable assurance that its employees could advance into supervisory positions; further, that its educational and testing requirements are valid because they have a legitimate business purpose, and because the tests are professionally developed ability tests, as sanctioned under 703(h) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 2000e-2 (h) .
In examining the validity of the educational and testing requirements, we must determine whether Duke had a valid business purpose in adopting such requirements or whether the company merely used the requirements to discriminate.
The plaintiffs claim that centuries of cultural and educational discrimination have placed Negroes at a disadvantage in competing with whites for positions which involve an educational or testing standard and that Duke merely seized upon such requirements as a means of discrimination without a business purpose in mind.
Plaintiffs have admitted in their brief that an employer is permitted to establish educational or testing requirements which fulfill genuine business needs and that such requirements are valid under the Act.
In support of this statement, we quote verbatim from appellants' brief: An employer is, of course, permitted to set educational or test requirements that fulfill genuine business needs It may well be that, because of long-standing inequality in educational and cultural opportunities available to Negroes, proportionately fewer Negro applicants than white can pass such a test.
But where business need can be shown the fact that the test tends to exclude more Negroes than whites does not make it discriminatory Thus, plaintiffs would apparently concede that if Duke adopted its educational and testing requirements with a genuine business purpose and without intent to discriminate against future Negro employees, such requirements would not be invalidated merely because of Negroes' cultural and educational disadvantages due to past discrimination.
Although earlier in this opinion we upheld the district court's finding that the company had engaged in discriminatory hiring practices prior to the Act and we concluded also that the educational and testing requirements adopted by the company continued the effects of this prior discrimination as to employees who had been hired prior to the adoption of the educational requirement, it seems reasonably clear that this requirement did have a genuine business purpose and that the company initiated the policy with no intention to discriminate against Negro employees who might be hired after the adoption of the educational requirement.
This conclusion would appear to be not merely supported, but actually compelled by the following facts: (1) Duke had long ago established the practice of training its own employees for supervisory positions rather than bring in supervisory personnel from outside.
2 (2) Duke instituted its educational requirement in 1955, nine years prior to the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and well before the civil rights movement had gathered enough momentum to indicate the inevitability of the passage of such an act.
3 (3) Duke has, by plaintiffs' own admission, discontinued the use of discriminatory tactics in employment, promotions and transfers.
4 (4) The company's expert witness, Dr. Moffie, testified that he had observed the Dan River operation; had observed personnel in the performance of jobs; had studied the written summary of job duties; had spent several days with company representatives discussing job content; and he concluded that a high school education would provide the training, ability and judgment to perform tasks in the higher skilled classifications.
This testimony is uncontroverted in the record.
(5) When the educational requirement was adopted it adversely affected the advancement and transfer of white employees who were Watchmen or were in the Coal Handling Department as well as Negro employees in the Labor Department.
5 (6) Duke has a policy of paying the major portion of the expenses incurred by an employee who secures a high school education or its equivalent.
In fact, one of the plaintiffs recently obtained such equivalent, the company paying seventy-five percent of the cost.
6 Next, we consider the testing requirements to determine their validity and we conclude that they, too, are valid under 703(h) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e-2(h) .
In pertinent part, 703(h) reads: " nor shall it be an unlawful employment practice for an employer to give and to act upon the results of any professionally developed ability test provided that such test, its administration or action upon the results is not designed, intended or used to discriminate because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin."
There is no evidence in the record that there is any discrimination in the administration and scoring of the tests.
Nor is there any evidence that the tests are not professionally developed.
The company's expert, Dr. D. J. Moffie, testified that in his opinion the tests were professionally developed and are reliable and valid; that they are "low level" tests and are given at Dan River by one who has had special training in the administration of such tests.
The minimum acceptable scores used by the company are approximately those achieved by the average high school graduate, which fact indicates that the tests are accepted as a substitute for a high school education.
The evidence disclosed that the minimum acceptable scores used by Duke are Wonderlic-20, and Bennett Mechanical-39; the score of the average high school graduate, i. e. , the fiftieth percentile, is 21.9 for the Wonderlic, nearly two points higher than the score accepted by Duke, and 39 for the Bennett Mechanical.
The plaintiffs claim that tests must be job-related in order to be valid under 703(h) .
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission which is charged with administering and implementing the Act supports plaintiffs' view.
The EEOC has ruled that tests are unlawful " in the absence of evidence that the tests are properly related to specific jobs and have been properly validated *."
Decision of EEOC, December 2, 1966, reprinted in CCH, Employment Practices Guide, ¶ 17,304.53.
The EEOC's position has been supported by two federal district courts.
United States v. H. K. Porter, 59 L.C.
¶ 9204 (M.D.Ala.1969); Dobbins v. Local 212, IBEW , 292 F.Supp.
413 (S.D. Ohio 1968).
In Dobbins the court invalidated a test which was being given for membership in a labor union or in connection with a referral system because it was not adequately related to job performance needs.
However, in that case it was clear that the testing requirement was not one of business necessity and the reasons for adopting such a requirement compellingly indicated that the purpose of such requirement was discrimination, which is not true in the present case. The court below held that the tests given by Duke were not job-related, but then refused to give weight to the EEOC ruling that tests must be job-related in order to be valid under 703 (h) .
The plaintiffs assert that such refusal was error.
It has been held that the interpretation given a statute by an agency which was established to administer the statute is entitled to great weight.
Udall v. Tallman , 380 U.S. 1, 15 , 85 S.Ct. 792 , 13 L.Ed.2d 616 (1965).
This principle has been applied to EEOC interpretations given the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Weeks v. Southern Bell Telephone & Telegraph Co. , 408 F.2d 228, 235 (5 Cir. 1969); Cox v. United States Gypsum Co. , 284 F.Supp.
74, 78 (N.D.Ind.1968); International Chemical Workers Union v. Planters Manufacturing Co. , 259 F.Supp.
365, 366 (N.D.Miss.1966).
Plaintiffs cite these cases last mentioned above to support their argument that this court should adopt the EEOC ruling that tests must be job-related in order to be valid.
However, none of these cases stands for the proposition that an EEOC interpretation is binding upon the courts; in fact, in International Chemical Workers , supra at 366 , it was held that such interpretations of the EEOC are " not conclusive on the courts *."
We cannot agree with plaintiffs' contention that such an interpretation by EEOC should be upheld where, as here, it is clearly contrary to compelling legislative history and, as will be shown, the legislative history of 703(h) will not support the view that a "professionally developed ability test" must be job-related.
The amendment which incorporated the testing provision of 703(h) was proposed in a modified form by Senator Tower, who was concerned about a then-recent finding by a hearing examiner for the Illinois Fair Employment Practices Commission in a case involving Motorola, Inc. The examiner had found that a pre-employment general intelligence test which Motorola had given to a Negro applicant for a job had denied the applicant an equal employment opportunity because Negroes were a culturally deprived or disadvantaged group.
In proposing his original amendment, essentially the same as the version later unanimously accepted by the Senate, Senator Tower stated: 703(h) general ability and intelligence tests to determine the trainability of prospective employees If we should fail to adopt language of this kind, there could be an Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ruling which would in effect invalidate tests to determine the professional competence or ability or trainability or suitability of a person to do a job The discussion which ensued among members of the Senate reveals that proponents and opponents of the Act agreed that general intelligence and ability tests, if fairly administered and acted upon, were not invalidated by the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
See , 110 Congressional Record 13503-13505, June 11, 1964.
The "Clark-Case" interpretative memorandum pertaining to Title VII fortifies the conclusion that Congress did not intend to invalidate an employer's use of bona fide general intelligence and ability tests.
It was stated in said memorandum: where, because of differences in background and education, members of some groups are able to perform better on these tests than members of other groups When Senator Tower called up his modified amendment, which became the ability testing provision of 703(h) , Senator Humphrey--one of the leading proponents and the principal floor leader of the fight for passage of the entire Act--stated: The Senator has won his point At no place in the Act or in its legislative history does there appear a requirement that employers may utilize only those tests which measure the ability and skill required by a specific job or group of jobs.
In fact, the legislative history would seem to indicate clearly that Congress was actually trying to guard against such a result.
An amendment requiring a "direct relation" between the test and a "particular position" was proposed in May 1968, 7 but was defeated.
We agree with the district court that a test does not have to be job-related in order to be valid under 703(h) .
8 Having determined that Duke's educational and testing requirements were valid under Title VII, we reach the conclusion that those four Negro employees without a high school education who were hired after the adoption of the educational requirement are not entitled to relief.
These employees were hired subject to the educational requirement; each accepted a position in the Labor Department with his eyes wide open.
Under this valid educational requirement these four plaintiffs could have been hired only in the Labor Department and could not have been promoted or advanced into any other department irrespective of race, since they could not meet the requirement.
Consequently, it could not be said that they have been discriminated against.
Furthermore, since the testing requirement is being applied to white and Negro employees alike as an approximate equivalent to a high school education for advancement purposes, neither is it racially discriminatory.
Once we have determined that certain of the plaintiffs are entitled to relief the next question for consideration is the nature and extent of relief to be provided.
9 Those six Negro employees without a high school education or its equivalent who were hired prior to the initiation of the educational requirement are entitled to injunctive relief under 706(g) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e-5(g) .
10 The educational and test requirements are invalid as applied to their eligibility for transfer and promotion.
Thus, on remand, the district court should award proper injunctive relief to insure that these six employees are considered for any future openings without being subject to the educational or testing requirements.
This will work no hardship upon the company since the relief provided will simply require it to consider those Negro employees equally with similarly situated white employees, many of whom do not have a high school education or its equivalent.
If a Negro employee is advanced to a job in one of the better departments and his inability to perform the duties of the job is demonstrated after a reasonable period the company will be justified in returning him to his previous position or placing him elsewhere.
As Judge Butzner said in Quarles , 279 F.Supp.
505, 521 (E.D.Va.1968), supra : In granting relief, the district court should order that seniority rights of the six Negro employees who are victims of discrimination be considered on a plant-wide, rather than a departmental, basis.
To apply strict departmental seniority would result in the continuation of present effects of past discrimination whenever one of the six is considered in the future for advancement to a vacant job in competition with a white employee who has already gained departmental seniority in a better department as a result of past discriminatory hiring practices.
In United States v. Local 189 , 282 F.Supp.
39, 44 (E.D.La.1968), aff'd, 416 F.2d 980 (5 Cir. 1969), supra , the court held: present 11 It is to be understood and remembered that there are thirteen named Negro plaintiffs who bring this action.
Jesse C. Martin, a Negro formerly employed in the Labor Department who had a high school education, was advanced to a higher position subsequent to the effective date of the Act.
He is not joined as a plaintiff since the past discrimination against him has been removed.
This case is now moot as to two of the named Negro plaintiffs who have high school educations and have been advanced; also as to Willie Boyd, who has acquired the equivalent of a high school education and is now eligible for advancement.
Briefly summarizing, only those six Negro employees without a high school education or its equivalent who were hired prior to the adoption of the educational requirement are entitled to relief.
As to them the judgment below is reversed and the case is remanded to the district court with directions to fashion appropriate injunctive relief consistent with this opinion.
As to the remaining Negro plaintiffs the judgment below is affirmed.
Affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.
