 WEICK , Circuit Judge.
The present action was brought by plaintiffs, Citizens to Preserve Overton Park (a corporation organized for the purpose its name implies), William W. Deupree, Sr. (a taxpayer), Sunshine K. Snyder (a taxpayer and owner of property affected by the proposed highway route), the Sierra Club (a nonprofit corporation organized for conservation of natural resources), and the Audubon Society, Inc. (also a conservation organization).
The defendants are John A. Volpe, Secretary of Transportation, and Charles W. Speight, Commissioner of the Tennessee Department of Highways.
1 The plaintiffs, claiming that Secretary Volpe had not complied with statutory mandates before releasing federal funds for an interstate highway and that administrative procedures had not been substantially followed, sought injunctive relief against Secretary Volpe prohibiting him from releasing federal funds (which represent 90% of the total cost) for the construction of a section of Interstate 40 through Overton Park, a public park in Memphis, Tennessee, and also enjoining Commissioner Speight from proceeding further on the proposed segment of the highway through Overton Park.
2 The District Court granted defendants' motion for summary judgment. 309 F.Supp.
1189 (W.D.Tenn.1970).
The plaintiffs appealed.
We affirm.
Overton Park is a 342 acre, municipally owned park in midtown Memphis used for a zoo, a 9-hole golf course and other recreational purposes.
The proposed section of the interstate highway extends in an east and west direction through the Park over the presently existing paved, non-access highway used by diesel buses which is approximately 4,800 feet in length.
The existing highway is 40 to 50 feet wide.
The proposed interstate will consist of six lanes--three running in each direction, separated by a median strip approximately 40 feet wide.
The interstate right-of-way will vary from approximately 250 feet in width to approximately 450 feet in width, and will require the use of approximately 26 acres of the Park.
The proposed design requires that a large portion of the highway be depressed sufficiently to remove traffic from the sight of users of the Park, however, five or six feet of fill will be required where a creek runs across the right-of-way.
A 1200 foot access ramp will be located within the eastern end of the park.
Because this case is on appeal from a summary judgment, the only question is whether there remains a genuine issue over any material fact in dispute.
Appellants argue that there are several material facts which are genuinely disputed.
They contend that it is disputed whether the Secretary made the determinations required by law before authorizing the release of federal funds.
3 Appellants also argue that administrative procedures were not followed because of failure to include in the notice of a public hearing any provision for the submission of written statements.
When considering a motion for summary judgment a court is required to "construe the evidence in its most favorable light in favor of the party opposing the motion and against the movant.
Further, the papers supporting the movant are closely scrutinized, whereas the opponent's are indulgently treated."
Bohn Aluminum & Brass Corp. v. Storm King Corp. , 303 F.2d 425, 427 (6th Cir. 1962).
If, after having done that, the court is able to say there is no genuine issue as to any material fact, summary judgment is appropriate.
Although a court must be hesitant to grant summary judgment, cases challenging administrative action are ripe for summary judgment.
See, e. g. , Todaro v. Pederson , 205 F.Supp.
612, 613 (N.D.Ohio 1961), aff'd 305 F.2d 377 (6th Cir.), cert. denied 371 U.S. 891 , 83 S.Ct. 190 , 9 L.Ed.2d 124 (1962).
Unlike civil actions originating in the District Court, litigants challenging administrative action are not entitled to a de novo hearing.
See, e. g. , Dredge Corp. v. Penny , 338 F.2d 456, 462 (9th Cir. 1964).
Rather, in such cases the court must determine whether the administrator's decision was arbitrary and capricious.
5 U.S.C. 706(2) (A).
4 In addition to the narrow scope of review of administrative action, plaintiffs are faced with the additional burden of overcoming a presumption of regularity afforded the acts of an administrator.
See Goldberg v. Truck Drivers Local Union No. 299 , 293 F.2d 807, 812 (6th Cir.), cert. denied 368 U.S. 938 , 82 S.Ct. 379 , 7 L.Ed.2d 337 (1961); Nolan v. Rhodes , 251 F.Supp.
584, 587 (S.D.Ohio 1965), aff'd 383 U.S. 104 , 86 S.Ct. 716 , 15 L.Ed.2d 616 (1966).
The presumption of regularity is a particularly strong one.
See, e. g. , Braniff Airways, Inc. v. C. A. B. , 126 U.S.App.D.C.
399 , 379 F.2d 453, 460 (1967).
This, of course, does not relieve the party moving for summary judgment from the burden of showing that there remains no dispute concerning any material facts It does, however, affect the type of evidence required to carry his burden.
It also makes clear that a party opposing summary judgment must do more than merely assert that the administrator's actions were unlawful.
He must be able to show by affidavit, or other evidence, that there is at least a possibility that he will be able to overcome the presumption of regularity.
379 F.2d at 462 .
In this case, the threshold question is whether the Secretary made the proper determinations at all, let alone whether those determinations were arbitrary and capricious.
Congress has declared it a national policy to preserve parklands and has forbidden the Secretary to approve a project which affects a park unless he first determines "(1) there is no feasible and prudent alternative to the use of such land, and (2) such program includes all possible planning to minimize harm to such park result from such use."
49 U.S.C. 1653(f) .
5 Appellants urge that there is no evidence that the Secretary ever made the necessary two findings before authorizing the release of funds.
There is no requirement in the statute that the Secretary articulate his findings.
Nor are we free to impose such a requirement on him.
See Braniff Airways, Inc. v. C. A. B. , supra at 460 .
We are of the opinion that the moving party introduced competent evidence tending to prove that the necessary determinations were made by the Secretary.
An affidavit was submitted on behalf of the Secretary by Edgar H. Swick.
Swick was Deputy Director of Public Roads 6 and therefore could give competent evidence from his personal knowledge concerning the necessary determinations.
7 Mr. Swick attested that the original decision with respect to the route was made in 1956 by the Bureau of Public Roads.
Although the relevant statutes dealing with parklands were not in force in 1956 and, therefore, it is unlikely that the Bureau had specifically in mind the necessary requirements, subsequent determinations were made reaffirming the original decision to route along the bus highway.
Mr. Swick attested: The exhibits referred to consist of press releases and correspondence between various officials of the state and federal governments.
Appellants challenge the admissibility of these documents.
These documents were admissible to show what was considered by the Secretary when he made his determinations.
Mr. Swick's assertions that the necessary determinations were made and the reasons therefor are unchallenged by any evidence, and there is nothing to indicate that his statements could be disputed at a trial.
With respect to the routing of the road, it is clear that the Secretary made the determinations required by law.
In addition to the valid reasons for choosing the route listed in the affidavit, Mr. Swick went on to point out that as of 1967, prior to the time Secretary Volpe took office, all of the right-of-way leading up to either side of the Park had been acquired and substantial work had been done.
The right-of-way through the Park had also been acquired by the state from the City of Memphis, though no work on it has yet been done.
8 As of the time of this case, the interstate route had been excavated up to either end of the park with the resulting disruption of homes and businesses that necessarily result whenever a major highway is routed through a city.
See Nashville I-40 Steering Committee v. Ellington , 387 F.2d 179, 185 (6th Cir. 1967), cert. denied 390 U.S. 921 , 88 S.Ct. 857 , 19 L.Ed.2d 982 (1968).
If it were not determined that a new route be chosen (the only suggested alternatives 9 include businesses and residences) not only would there be additional disruption, but that already caused would have been futile and wasteful.
Even assuming that the Secretary was not aware of this condition, the court could not ignore the social and economic impact of changing the route at this late date.
See Road Review League, Town of Bedford v. Boyd , 270 F.Supp.
650, 664 (S.D.N.Y.1967).
10 Appellants argue that they have introduced evidence which tends to dispute the fact that the Secretary ever made a determination that there were no feasible and prudent alternatives.
Specifically they submitted as an exhibit, the testimony of Lowell K. Bridwell, the former Federal Highway Administrator who approved the route in 1968, to a Congressional committee with respect to his approval.
Appellants contend that the Secretary merely delegated his duty to the Memphis City Council by allowing it to choose the route.
In our opinion, the testimony of Mr. Bridwell is further evidence that the Secretary complied with the statute.
The legislative history of the statute makes it clear that local preferences are to be considered: neither Appellants contend that the Secretary did not determine that the approved plan included "all possible planning to minimize harm" to the Park.
Appellants argue that there are at least three designs which are possible and which would minimize harm to the Park: a bored tunnel, a cut and cover tunnel or a highway depressed below the ground level.
The affidavit of Mr. Swick mentions all of these possibilities and the reasons for rejecting them.
It is unnecessary to go into elaborate detail.
However, it is basically undisputed that instead of the estimated $3.5 million cost of the present design, a cut and cover tunnel would cost approximately $41.5 million and a bored tunnel over $100 million.
While not controlling on whether these designs are possible, cost is certainly a legitimate consideration.
Mr. Swick's affidavit also attests that not only would there be a huge price differential, but the benefits to be gained would be minimal.
The Park's vegetation would not be preserved; there would be air pollution problems at the tunnel vents; there would be additional traffic hazards; and there would be serious drainage problems caused by depressing the road beneath the level of a creek that runs across the proposed right-of-way.
The affidavit makes it clear that the Secretary was fully aware of the alternative designs and chose the one now in effect.
Other than appellants' bald assertion that the Secretary did not make such a finding, the evidence points to the fact that the Secretary did determine that the proposed design included "all possible planning to minimize harm" to the Park.
By introducing affidavits tending to show alternative designs, appellants really raise the issue of whether there is a genuine dispute that the Secretary's determination was arbitrary and capricious.
Whether the Secretary's determination that the proposed plan included "all possible planning to minimize harm" to the Park depends on an interpretation of the word "possible."
It would be unrealistic to say the Secretary must approve any possible plan no matter what the cost and engineering problems compared to whatever minimal gains.
"Possible" must be interpreted within the bounds of wisdom and reasonableness.
The District Court was correct that it cannot hear de novo the determination of the Secretary.
In another case involving a section of this same interstate highway, this Court has cited Berman v. Parker , 348 U.S. 26, 35 , 75 S.Ct. 98, 104 , 99 L.Ed. 27 (1954), where the Supreme Court held: "It is not for the courts to oversee the boundary line nor sit in review on the size of a particular project area."
Nashville I-40 Steering Committee v. Ellington , supra , 387 F.2d at 185 .
This holding applies with equal force to the design for the highway.
The pleadings, affidavits and exhibits in this case make it clear that there is no factual dispute about what design was chosen and what the alternatives were.
The only issue is the wisdom of the choice.
Under these facts, the District Court, in our opinion, was justified in holding that the necessary determinations required by the statutes were made in good faith by the Secretary and that such determinations were not arbitrary or capricious.
A trial on the issues would be an exercise in futility.
11 Appellants contend that there was not substantial compliance with the requirements for a public hearing.
23 U.S.C. 128 requires a state submitting plans for a federal-aid highway to conduct a public hearing and to forward a transcript of the hearing to the Secretary along with a certification by the state highway department that it "has considered the economic and social effects of such a location [of a road through a city], its impact on the environment, and its consistency with the goals and objectives of such urban planning as has been promulgated by the community."
Relative to the notice for such hearing, the Department of Transportation issued Policy and Procedure Memorandum 20-8, 23 C.F.R., Chap.
I, part.
1, 8 , which provides in relevant part: It is undisputed fact that the Tennessee Highway Department gave notice of a public hearing to be held on May 19, 1969, but that the notice failed to contain any provision for the submission of written statements.
It is also undisputed that written statements were submitted.
12 Appellants are unable to cite a single instance in which an interested party was deprived of an opportunity to be heard, nor are they able to indicate any additional information that was not submitted at the hearing as a result of the deficiency in the notice.
In dealing with errors committed by administrative agencies we are required to take due account of the rule of prejudicial error.
5 U.S.C. 706 ; see, e. g. , Braniff Airways, Inc. v. C. A. B. , supra , 379 F.2d at 465-466 .
We are in accord with the District Court that the failure to include a method by which to submit written statements was, on the facts of this case, harmless error.
We do not read D. C. Federation of Civic Associations, Inc. v. Volpe , 434 F.2d 436 (D.C.Cir.
1970) to dictate a different result.
In that case no hearing at all had been provided for, while in the present case there was a very adequate hearing.
Other issues have been raised which we considered but do not deem them as meriting discussion.
The injunction pending appeal is dissolved and the judgment of the District Court is affirmed.
