 CLARK , Circuit Judge: The sole, inexorable issue presented by this appeal requires us to predict whether the Supreme Court of the United States will apply its decision in O'Callahan v. Parker , 395 U.S. 258 , 89 S.Ct. 1683 , 23 L.Ed.2d 291 (1969), to comparable proceedings of military courts which reached a stage of complete finality prior to June 2, 1969, the date that decision was announced.
The court below reasoned that O'Callahan should be denied retroactive application, 305 F.Supp.
1186 .
We affirm.
It all started for James Roy Gosa on August 13, 1966.
He was then serving as a member of the United States Air Force stationed at Warren Air Force Base in Wyoming, and on the night in question, he was officially off-duty and with permission of his superior officers had left the military post dressed in mufti.
Around midnight Gosa allegedly raped a civilian in Cheyenne, Wyoming.
The asserted victim was not on any type of military duty and had no direct or indirect relationship with the military establishment.
Although Gosa was arrested by Cheyenne civilian authorities for prosecution in their courts, he was subsequently released from their detention when the complaining party failed to appear.
He thereupon was immediately taken into military custody and was charged with violation of Article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (U.C.M.J.)
10 U.S.C.A. 920 , which provides that any person subject to the Code who commits an act of rape may be punished as a court-martial may direct.
Pursuant to the provisions of subchapters IV and V, U.C.M.J.
( 10 U.S.C.A. 816-829 ), a general court-martial was duly convened which tried petitioner and, on December 2, 1966, found him guilty as charged.
All of the multiple review procedures provided by the U.C.M.J.
were accorded.
1 On July 11, 1967 Gosa petitioned the Court of Military Appeals for a grant of review under Article 67, U.C.M.J.
( 10 U.S.C.A. 867 ).
All direct review procedures were exhausted and Gosa's conviction became final in law on August 16, 1967 when the Court of Military Appeals denied review.
On August 21, 1969, Gosa filed his application for a writ of habeas corpus in the court below and on the 6th of November, 1969, filed with the United States Court of Military Appeals a motion to vacate his sentence and conviction.
Both the application and the motion were based upon assertions that Gosa's confinement was invalid in the light of the decision in O'Callahan that the general court-martial which tried him lacked jurisdiction.
Both the application for habeas relief and the motion to vacate, which the Court of Military Appeals treated as a petition for reconsideration, were denied.
2 O'CALLAHAN--COMPARISON AND ANALYSIS The Supreme Court granted a petition for certiorari review of a Tenth Circuit case styled Relford v. Commandant U. S. Disciplinary Barracks, Ft.
Leavenworth , 409 F.2d 824 , for the limited purpose of deciding the retroactivity and scope of O'Callahan .
See 397 U.S. 934 , 90 S.Ct. 958 , 25 L.Ed.2d 114 (1970).
However, when Relford came on to be heard on its merits the Court determined that because Relford's offense had been perpetrated within the geographical boundary of a military post, it had a service connection which O'Callahan lacked.
Thus, a decision on retroactivity was deemed inappropriate.
401 U.S. 355 , 91 S.Ct. 649 , 28 L.Ed.2d 102 (1971).
Relford enumerated 12 factors which, if present, deprive a military court-martial of jurisdiction to try a member of the Armed Forces otherwise under the jurisdiction of that court by the congressional mandate of Article 2, U.C.M.J.
( 10 U.S.C.A. 802 ).
3 Each of these factors is unquestionably present in Gosa's case; indeed the only distinction, locale--the Territory of Hawaii vis-a-vis the State of Wyoming--if effective at all, makes Gosa's case stronger.
Indubitably, had O'Callahan been rendered prior to these events in Gosa's case, that decision would have deprived the general court-martial which tried Gosa of jurisdictional authority to hear or determine that cause.
4 We cannot avoid deciding the scope of its applicability as precedent.
We therefore must analyze it.
In Relford , the Court capsuled its prior holding in O'Callahan thus: Looking in greater detail to the opinion itself, we first note that certiorari in O'Callahan was limited to the question: 801 et seq.
393 U.S. 822 89 S.Ct. 177 21 L.Ed.2d 93 After reciting the unlimited grant of congressional authority "To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of land and naval Forces" contained in Article I, Section 8 , Clause 14 of the Constitution, and the Bill of Rights language which excepted only cases arising in the land or naval forces , and excepted those cases only from the Fifth Amendment's requirement of grand jury presentment or indictment, Mr. Justice Douglas, speaking for the majority, pointed out that Congress had developed a system of military justice with fundamental differences from civilian courts.
He stated the issue in these words: first second 2 Those civil rights are the constitutional stakes in the present litigation 395 U.S. 262 89 S.Ct. 1685 Then, after a discussion of pre and post-Constitution military court history, the conclusion of the decision was put in this language: 395 U.S. at 272 89 S.Ct. at 1690 Clearly then, grand and petit jury protections were the core rights sought to be vouchsafed.
Since the opinion also spoke of other procedural aspects of the military system and compared some of these to civilian court processes, we cannot state with absolute assurance that the Court will later hold that only these two Bill of Rights protections were involved.
However, this uncertainty is not critical to our conclusion.
Our analysis of O'Callahan must also center upon determining whether the Court decided that military tribunals lacked adjudicatory power over servicemen's offenses which were not "service-connected".
Did the opinion hold that courts-martial lacked power over the subject matter and person of such a soldier because Congress had no constitutional authority to vest it, or did O'Callahan decide that the lack of grand and petit jury procedures (and perhaps other civilian court protections) resulted in the loss of jurisdiction otherwise within the control of congressional grant?
In United States ex rel.
Flemings v. Chafee , 330 F.Supp.
193 (E.D.N.Y.
1971), a most thorough and scholarly judicial determination, Judge Weinstein comes to the somewhat guarded conclusion that lack of adjudicatory power was the rationale of the decision.
He also notes that other jurists have reached the opposite conclusion.
See the decision here on appeal, Gosa v. Mayden , 305 F.Supp.
1186 (N.D.Fla.1969); Mercer v. Dillon , 19 U.S.C.M.A.
264 , 41 C.M.R.
264 (1970); Schlomon v. Moseley (1971) [Civ.No.
L-1003, May 19, 1971]; and the opinion of the Board of Review [Art.
66, U.C.M.J.]
in United States v. King , ACM 20361 (July 30, 1969), review denied U.S.C.M.A., 40 C.M.R.
327 ( ).
5 Despite the weight of authority to the contrary, we find the reasoning of Flemings persuasive on this issue.
Read with an open mind, O'Callahan's foundation, framework and structure deny to the legislation which breathed the breath of judicial life into the forum that tried Sgt.
O'Callahan, the necessary basis in constitutional power to reach his type of case.
It declares that because of the Bill of Rights, Article I, Section 8 cannot be read to enable Congress to authorize the military courts to try a peacetime soldier who, freed of military responsibility, albeit temporarily, is charged with a crime (a) cognizable in a civilian court and (b) having no military significance.
It placed O'Callahan in the same status as a discharged serviceman, 6 a civilian employed by the Armed Forces overseas, 7 or a civilian accompanying the military service overseas.
8 Although the language of the opinion does not say it in so many words, it holds that a member of the Armed Forces has an area of off-duty life wherein his general serviceman status is an insufficient nexus to bring his actions under the constitutional range of military "Government and Regulation".
RETROACTIVITY--NEED IT BE TESTED The threshold problem we face in the instant appeal presents a completely novel issue, for O'Callahan did not overturn a prior precedent of the Court.
It invalidated a part of a law made by Congress.
We must determine whether the Supreme Court's doctrines of retroactivity are applicable to a decision which undoes congressional action in a context where the Act involved has a half-century background of at least tacit judicial approval.
Of course it is illogical to assign shadings or degrees of nullity to acts which may be classed as void.
But, with equal certitude, logic would assert that if a court decision reversing a prior judicial error of fundamental constitutional law must be tested for its retroactive impact, a court decision reversing a long established, judicially recognized legislative rule ought to be entitled to the same testing.
For how could one assert that a proceeding which is invalid because it is in excess of constitutional right is less vacuous because its nullity results from judicial error rather than legislative action?
Equally obviously, it is no more illogical to apply the rules for determining retroactivity to losses of liberty or property resulting from unconstitutional judicial precedent than to unconstitutional legislative action.
With these axioms in mind, we look to see how the doctrine of judicial determination of retroactivity came into existence.
Norton v. Shelby County, Tennessee , 118 U.S. 425 , 6 S.Ct. 1121 , 30 L.Ed. 178 (1886), declared that an unconstitutional enactment conferred no right, imposed no duty, afforded no protection and was, in legal contemplation, as inoperative as though it had never been passed.
9 In Chicot County Drainage Dist. v. Baxter State Bank , 308 U.S. 371 , 60 S.Ct. 317 , 84 L.Ed. 329 (1940), the Court retracted the broad statements of Norton and declared that those statements had to be taken with qualifications.
It reasoned that the actual existence of a law prior to the determination of unconstitutionality is an operative fact and may have consequences which cannot justly be ignored.
Linkletter v. Walker , 381 U.S. 618 , 85 S.Ct. 1731 , 14 L.Ed.2d 601 (1965), the progenitor of the Court's precedents in this field, imported the rationale of Chicot into the criminal law.
Linkletter is controlling precedent here for the assertion that there is no basis for distinction between legislation and judge-made law in reasoning retroactivity vel non .
Under our view set out above, O'Callahan presents another significant first in the field of retroactive adjudication because it involved a determination that the Constitution would not support a law which invested a judicial system with jurisdiction over the person and subject matter of the action tried.
It has always been the law that proceedings of a court which is without jurisdiction of the subject matter are void, but does this inevitably lead to the necessity for full retrospective application of the court decision which first discovers and announces the jurisdictional deficit?
We hold it does not.
Indeed, the question of jurisdiction lies at the second level in the analysis of the problem at hand.
For though O'Callahan determines a lack of jurisdiction, the determination is the result of a new adjudication of constitutional right.
Being taught as we will later show, that we can reject as inconsequential the specific provision of the Constitution on which a new precedent rests, as well as the relative value of the constitutional guarantee involved, we are impelled to the conclusion that this more than half-decade of precedent for selective retroactivity may not be ignored.
In the light of this reasoning, no decision can arbitrarily be assigned full retroactivity solely on the basis that it operates on jurisdictional rather than proscribing the denial of a fundamental constitutional right that relates to another area of the processes of the criminal law.
Finally, one distinction remains to be made.
The case at bar is not like United States v. United States Coin & Currency , 401 U.S. 715 , 91 S.Ct. 1041 , 28 L.Ed.2d 434 (1971).
There the Court prohibited a forfeiture of property which had its basis in the refusal of a citizen to incriminate himself, which is, of course, a form of conduct that could not have been constitutionally punished at any time from and after the date the Bill of Rights was adopted.
Such right to refuse to incriminate oneself was not first confected in the decisions which declared that gambling registration forms would constitute self-incrimination and could not be required.
Since there was no right to arrest the gambler who refused to file such forms, there was no right at all to seize his gambling equipment at the time of his illegal arrest.
The opinion closes on this cogent note: 401 U.S. 715 91 S.Ct. at 1046 10 It begs the question to assert that because the issue in O'Callahan is pure jurisdiction that Coin & Currency is analogous.
No citizen can rightfully be jailed for exercising his religious freedoms or petitioning his government for a redress of grievances, even though some new litigation situation could conceivably arise in which such deprivations of liberty would be expressly voided.
His right to be free of such restraints is clearly established in the Constitution itself and not in decisional precedent.
This is just not at all the same as the new view of the right of Congress to regulate military jurisdiction over Sgt.
O'Callahan which the Court announced on June 2, 1969.
This latter decision is in the same category as Bloom v. State of Illinois , 391 U.S. 194 , 88 S.Ct. 1477 , 20 L.Ed.2d 522 (1968), or any other new or altered adjudication that changes fundamental rights of those accused of crime.
One of the O'Callahan-Relford criteria, see note 3 supra , is that the crime involved must be cognizable in a civilian court.
The crime of rape, for which O'Callahan, Relford and Gosa were prosecuted, was equally contrary to the laws of the civilian jurisdictions involved and the U.C.M.J.
The issue for those cases and Gosa's as well is not whether the accused could be tried at all, but which forum had the right to conduct the proceedings.
Not whether, but where.
In sum, we hold that there is no arbitrary or simplistic basis for deciding retroactivity.
11 The heart of the doctrine is a reasoned application of new constitutional precedent.
We must follow the course those decisions dictate in the case at bar.
RETROACTIVITY--GENERAL PRINCIPLES The historical background against which the Supreme Court of the United States first explicated a set of rules to govern whether new court-enunciated constitutional principles of criminal law were to be invested with prospective, limited or fully retroactive application is detailed in Mr. Justice Clark's opinion in Linkletter v. Walker , supra .
The intervening decisions which touched on this principle, as well as the comments of legal scholars who have explored the subject matter, have just been collated in Mr. Justice White's opinion in Williams v. United States , 401 U.S. 646 , 91 S.Ct. 1148 , 28 L.Ed.2d 388 (1971).
12 We need not attempt to duplicate this effort.
However, the problem in this case is not discovering precedent but determining how it should be applied.
13 We therefore deem more than bare citations necessary to develop the rationalization of our disposition of the vital and legally complex issue presented.
Linkletter denied full retroactive application to the rule of Mapp v. Ohio , 367 U.S. 643 , 81 S.Ct. 1684 , 6 L.Ed.2d 1081 (1961).
Mapp changed prior decisional law by holding that the Fourteenth Amendment operated to require State courts to exclude evidence from criminal trials when it had been obtained in searches and seizures which violated the Fourth Amendment.
The majority opinion epitomized its holding thus: purpose reliance effect though the error complained of might be fundamental Tehan v. United States ex rel.
Shott , 382 U.S. 406 , 86 S.Ct. 459 , 15 L.Ed.2d 453 (1966), refused retroactivity to Griffin v. California , 380 U.S. 609 , 85 S.Ct. 1229 , 14 L.Ed.2d 106 (1965), which denied to the states that did not already proscribe it, the right to comment on the failure of the defendant to testify in a criminal proceeding.
Tehan differentiated the self-incrimination protections of the Fifth Amendment from (i) the denial of the assistance of counsel, (ii) the burdening of the opportunity of indigents to appeal and (iii) the use of coerced confessions, all of which had been given fully retroactive application, by pointing out that these latter three processes infected a criminal proceeding with " the clear danger of convicting the innocent ."
By contrast, it classed the privilege against self-incrimination not as an adjunct to the ascertainment of truth but as a protection of the right of an individual to be let alone.
By application of the tripartite test of Linkletter --purpose, reliance and effect--the Court reasoned that a prospective application of Griffin's rule best served the interests of justice.
In a majority opinion by Chief Justice Warren, Johnson v. State of New Jersey , 384 U.S. 719 , 86 S.Ct. 1772 , 16 L.Ed.2d 882 (1966) refused retroactive effect to Escobedo v. State of Illinois , 378 U.S. 478 , 84 S.Ct. 1758 , 12 L.Ed.2d 977 (1964) and Miranda v. State of Arizona , 384 U.S. 436 , 86 S.Ct. 1602 , 16 L.Ed.2d 694 (1966), which had defined and delineated the rights of those accused of crime during the arrest and investigatory period and had rendered inadmissible statements and confessions received when such accused were without counsel and had not been warned and advised of their rights.
In the course of refining and applying Linkletter , Johnson 14 stated: 384 U.S. at 728-729 86 S.Ct. at 1778-1779 15 Assuming that there were past injustices which could have been averted by having counsel present at the time, Mr. Justice Brennan, speaking for the Court in Stovall v. Denno , 388 U.S. 293 , 87 S.Ct. 1967 , 18 L.Ed.2d 1199 (1967), refused retroactive application to United States v. Wade , 388 U.S. 218 , 87 S.Ct. 1926 , 18 L.Ed.2d 1149 (1967) and Gilbert v. State of California , 388 U.S. 263 , 87 S.Ct. 1951 , 18 L.Ed.2d 1178 (1967), which had rendered inadmissible in State and Federal prosecutions pretrial identification procedures handled in the absence of counsel.
It is this opinion which announced the most frequently quoted epitome for retroactivity determinations: 388 U.S. at 297 87 S.Ct. at 1970 Since most other cases declaring a constitutional right to counsel have been granted full retroactive effect and since Stovall speaks of the Wade and Gilbert rights as ones which prevent dangers and unfairness in the fact-determining process and enhance the integrity and reliability of trials, it is of considerable moment to the case at bar that Stovall expressly gave the reliance and effect factors overriding significance in restricting the effect of the decisions to Wade and Gilbert alone.
Even though it is a short per curiam with two justices concurring on different grounds and two dissenting, DeStefano v. Woods , 392 U.S. 631 , 88 S.Ct. 2093 , 20 L.Ed.2d 1308 (1968) is perhaps the most significant precedent to the case at bar.
There, the Court refused retroactive application to Duncan v. State of Louisiana , 391 U.S. 145 , 88 S.Ct. 1444 , 20 L.Ed.2d 491 (1968), which held that States cannot deny a request for jury trial in serious criminal cases, and to Bloom v. State of Illinois , supra , which held that the right to jury trial extends to trials for serious criminal contempts.
Based upon the (a) (b) (c) test that had been distilled from prior decisions in Stovall , the Court reasoned Duncan should not be applied retroactively because: generally tends to prevent arbitrariness and repression Duncan 392 U.S. 633-634 88 S.Ct. 2095 Of greater moment for Gosa's case was this application of retrospectivity standards to Bloom : One ground for the Bloom result was the belief that contempt trials, which often occur before the very judge who was the object of the allegedly contemptuous behavior, would be more fairly tried if a jury determined guilt Bloom 392 U.S. at 634 88 S.Ct. at 2096 On April 5, 1971, in the combined cases of Williams v. United States and Elkanich v. United States, supra , the Court refused retroactive application to Chimel v. The State of California , 395 U.S. 752 , 89 S.Ct. 2034 , 23 L.Ed.2d 685 (1969), which denied to states the right to admit certain evidence seized incident to an arrest.
In a four-judge majority opinion announced by Mr. Justice White, 16 the Court gave us this most current assay of how it applied the (a) part test of Stovall : Linkletter 401 U.S. 646 at 651-653 91 S.Ct. at 1151-1153 Two other opinions, rendered the same day as Williams and Elkanich , dealt with the application of Marchetti v. United States , 390 U.S. 39 , 88 S.Ct. 697 , 19 L.Ed.2d 889 (1968), and Grosso v. United States , 390 U.S. 62 , 88 S.Ct. 709 , 19 L.Ed.2d 906 (1968), which prohibited the prosecution of gamblers who failed to register and pay a tax imposed by federal law on the grounds that the registration requirement violated Fifth Amendment privileges against self-incrimination.
In Mackey v. United States , 401 U.S. 667 , 91 S.Ct. 1160 , 28 L.Ed.2d 404 (1971), four justices concluded that Marchetti and Grosso should not be applied retroactively since there was no threat to the reliability of the fact-finding process involved in Mackey's trial for income tax evasion because of the evidentiary use of the Marchetti-Grosso proscribed wagering tax forms.
17 United States v. United States Coin & Currency , supra , involved forfeiture of property because of a refusal to file a self-incriminating form.
It has been discussed above.
18 This full, but hopefully not fulsome, development of the elements which form today's doctrine for court control of the reach of precedential effect of new pronouncements of constitutional rights in the field of criminal law, sets the stage for testing O'Callahan for this case. The tests will be applied in the (a) (b) (c) formula format of Stovall with due regard for the explanations and emphasis supplied to each criterion by subsequent decisions.
RETROACTIVITY - APPLICATION OF THE TESTS (A) Purpose of the New Standard .
The purpose of O'Callahan may be stated in two ways.
Affirmaitvely, it secured the constitutional right of grand jury presentment or indictment and petit jury trial to servicemen on active duty who were accused of crimes having no service connection.
19 Negatively phrased, O'Callahan denied military jurisdiction which exceeded the least possible power which the Constitution reposed in Congress and did so to avoid numerous incidents and functions of military justice considered less satisfactory to the determination of guilt than procedures available in civilian courts that would occupy the jurisdictional vacuum.
Under the affirmative statement of the test, DeStefano , supra , particularly since it applies Bloom prospectively, predicts that the Supreme Court will hold O'Callahan should not be applied retroactively.
In the words of the Court, the purposes of that decision were to require jury trials (a) in serious criminal cases because such jury trials generally tend " to prevent arbitrariness and repression " which even impartial judges might exhibit, and (b) in serious criminal contempt cases because juries could " more fairly " try alleged contemnors than could a judge who had been the object of the contemptuous act.
The same purposes underlie O'Callahan , even given its stern view of the faults of military courts which we detail below.
Obviously the negative statement gives a much broader sweep to O'Callahan and requires an independent analysis of purpose in the light of the Court's prior inquiries into the reliability of guilt determination--the fairness of the trial--the very integrity of the fact-finding process.
Candor, rather than even a hint of disrespect, compels the observation here that this particular facet of testing for retroactivity deals almost entirely in subjective judge-conceived notions based in no part on tangible evidence developed by an adversary process or otherwise, but rather upon feelings and concepts which are the product of each individual jurist's experiences and readings.
Thus, with no deepseated assurance that the question ought not be certified to the High Court, 20 we reason to the following conclusions.
No analysis of the wider purpose of O'Callahan would be correct that did not weigh the critical ingredient of reliability of the fact-finding processes which it altered.
Likewise, no test of this factor would be objective which overlooked the critical, indeed deprecatory, terms which the majority opinion applied to the general system of military justice.
Quoting from United States ex rel.
Toth v. Quarles , 350 U.S. at 22-23 , 76 S.Ct. at 8 , it states: Then Mr. Justice Douglas' own words proclaim: 395 U.S. at 265 89 S.Ct. at 1686 395 U.S. at 263-264 89 S.Ct. at 1686 395 U.S. at 265 89 S.Ct. at 1687 7 89 S.Ct. at 1687 21 While commentators on both sides of the O'Callahan retroactivity issue have been critical of these statements, 22 and other authorities have stated more favorable conclusions about the fundamental fairness of the system, 23 we hasten to assert that, as an inferior tribunal, we have no prerogative and it is not our purpose to dispute any of O'Callahan's language in the slightest degree.
Our direct quotations here are solely for the purpose of demonstrating that, demeaning of military justice as these remarks may be, the opinion does not formulate its new constitutional restriction on congressional power for the purpose of preventing or undoing the conviction of innocent men.
There was no determination that the UCMJ carried a clear danger of convicting the innocent, nor was it adjudicated that Congress had ordained a truth-determining process which lacked integrity or which was infected with procedures which substantially impaired the truth-finding function.
Civilian court bias which might tend to protect local citizens and their property from the troops was not put into the scales for comparison, nor was the worth of the military system tested at the general court-martial level where Gosa was tried.
There the serviceman receives many procedural rights which are even more conducive to fact accuracy than most civilian forums accord.
24 The Court has told us that the extent to which other safeguards are available is also a pertinent consideration.
As the history of Gosa's case amply demonstrates, general courts-martial receive several direct reviews of fact and law.
The civilian staffed United States Court of Military Appeals, whose judges have fifteen-year tenure at a salary equal to our own, has both direct 25 and habeas review power.
26 Also, the federal courts have long been available for a collateral attack upon court-martial proceedings to secure basic constitutional guarantees and a full, fair hearing on all allegations raised.
27 We conclude that O'Callahan ultimately decides no more on this subject than that there is a belief that a civilian court trial with grand and petit jury protections would tend to prevent arbitrariness and repression and be fairer.
This belief is insufficient under DeStefano standards to warrant retroactivity if other criteria point strongly to prospective application.
Indeed, if the military court system as a whole were procedurally deficient, the attack and the holding in O'Callahan would certainly have condemned such lack of procedural and substantive due process equally with jurisdiction.
Otherwise, the decision itself would stand as a denial of equal protection to those it left included in O'Callahan and, more importantly, in Relford .
The latter case, according to its note 14 ( 91 S.Ct. at 658 ), extended the jurisdictional reach of military courts to about 80% of those servicemen who might otherwise have been excluded if a narrower definition of O'Callahan service connection had been adopted.
(B) Justified Reliance on the Old Standard .
We have been unable to find any authority or comment indicating that O'Callahan was foreshadowed in other opinions.
28 To the contrary, Kinsella v. United States ex rel.
Singleton , supra n. 8, gave an interpretation to the power of Congress under the Constitution to constitute a system of military justice and to infuse it with jurisdiction which was clearly wide enough to encompass O'Callahan .
The announcement there was: 361 U.S. at 241 80 S.Ct. at 301 No more need be said to demonstrate that this criterion clearly favors prospectivity.
(C) Effect on the Administration of Justice of Retroactive Application .
Here is another point that is free from doubt.
If O'Callahan is held to be entitled to full retroactivity, the impact upon military justice, and upon the federal court system too, will be veritably staggering.
In response to the request of this Court, the Department of the Air Force has advised that its court-martial systems have processed 475,349 cases since 1949 and although the sheer bulk of analysis prevented a case by case examination, a two-year sampling indicated to the Solicitor General of the United States that 5% would constitute a reasonable working hypothesis of the number of cases that could raise a retroactive O'Callahan issue.
This calculates to be 23,767 trials in this branch of the service alone.
29 As the Court of Military Appeals has observed in Mercer v. Dillon , supra , peacetime court-martial jurisdiction over O'Callahan -type cases has been in existence since 1916.
That opinion also pointed out that in the year 1968 there were 74,000 special and general courts-martial in the Army, the Navy and the Air Force.
With a 55-year history, which includes several years in which the Armed Forces were swollen by the manpower demands of two major "world" wars, the total number of cases involved may reasonably be expected to number in the hundreds of thousands.
Out of these possibilities, the numbers which could present issues still subject to review can only be rankly conjectured because of the variety of issues that could be raised.
Again alluding to the language of Mercer v. Dillon: 30 Indeed, it seems to this Court that a major justification for resolving its acknowledged doubts as to the correctness of the decision in this case in favor of prospectivity is the tremendous effect which a holding of retroactivity could produce solely within this Circuit, and only within the brief interim between the time our decision was announced and the time the Supreme Court could finally determine the merits of the case. An erroneous determination of retrospectivity could inundate this already overloaded system and the military forums with claims that would ultimately have to be reversed or dismissed.
On the other side of the coin, if we err in holding for prospective application, while we acknowledge that we surely have added burdens to those wrongly imprisoned or deprived of their rights, the dimensions of the error would be infinitely less.
The relative consequences to the administration of justice clearly indicate that we should pursue the more cautious course.
31 CONCLUSION We have set down in detail some will doubtless deem unnecessary the processes by which we have reasoned our decision.
We have done so because the issue with which we have dealt is one of the greatest moment, involving as it does not only Gosa's freedom but potentially the freedom and property rights of many other citizens.
If our reasoning is faulty, it is laid bare--its error will be plain.
Using the best lights we are given, we believe it to be correct.
We determine that the decision of the District Court that James Roy Gosa was not entitled to habeas corpus relief is correct and that decision is Affirmed.
