 PER CURIAM: Fred Arispe Cruz is an inmate of the Texas Department of Corrections.
Alleging jurisdiction under Title 28, U.S.C., Section 1343, Title 42, U.S.C., Section 1983, and Title 28, U.S.C., Section 2201, Cruz brought this suit against Dr. Beto, the Director of the Texas Department of Corrections, in the federal district court 2 seeking injunctive, pecuniary, and declaratory relief with regard to certain alleged practices and policies of the Department of Corrections which were claimed to deprive Cruz and other inmates similarly situated of rights guaranteed under the federal constitution.
The complaint alleged: 1.
The officials of the Texas Department of Corrections were obstructing Cruz's efforts to adhere to the tenets of his religious faith, Buddhism, and were refusing to permit Cruz and other imprisoned Buddhists to use the prison chapel and similar facilities for the practice of Buddhism, even though the prison authorities were actively encouraging the observance of Jewish, Roman Catholic, and Protestant rituals and practices among the prison population; 2.
The officials of the Texas Department of Corrections were denying Cruz and others similarly situated their rights to full and adequate access to the courts by limiting and restricting each inmate's legal research activities to two hours a day, six days a week; and 3.
The officials of the Texas Department of Corrections were depriving Cruz and other members of his class of their First Amendment right to stay informed on the state of local and national affairs by denying them access to radio, television, newspapers, and magazines during the times they were put in isolation or in solitary confinement for disciplinary reasons.
The lower court granted the respondent's motion to dismiss, ruling that Cruz's complaint failed to state a claim upon which relief could be granted.
See Cruz v. Beto, Director, etc. , S.D. Texas 1970, 329 F.Supp.
443 .
The petitioner-appellant Cruz has failed to demonstrate to us on appeal that the order of dismissal below was erroneous in any respect.
Affirmed.
