 GOLDBERG , Circuit Judge.
A funny thing happened to this case on its way to trial.
Through a series of errors all parties ended up in the wrong forum.
Finding a complete absence of federal jurisdiction, we remand the case to the district court for remand to the state court from whence it was removed.
Plaintiff General Electric Credit Corporation instituted this suit in a Texas state court, seeking judgment on a promissory note against defendant T. R. Grubbs.
Grubbs by various pleadings asserted a cross-action against General Electric Credit Corporation, and impleaded General Electric Company as an additional defendant.
Subsequently, Grubbs filed another petition naming the United States as a party defendant.
In this petition Grubbs referred to nine judgments obtained against him, including one in favor of the United States.
Alleging that he was in jeopardy because of adverse claims being pressed by the lien claimants and the United States, Grubbs prayed that the priority of the lien claimed by the United States be determined under the provisions of Rule 22, Fed.R.Civ.P., in order to avoid double or multiple liability.
The other judgment holders, however, were not made parties to the suit.
The United States, upon being named as a party defendant under Rule 22, filed a petition for removal to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
Removal was granted, apparently under the provisions of 28 U.S.C.A. 1444, which provides: 2410(a) provides: In sum 2410 waives sovereign immunity and allows the United States to be named a defendant in an interpleader suit with respect to real or personal property on which the United States has or claims a mortgage or other lien, and 1444 allows the United States to remove the suit to federal court when it is named a defendant in such a suit.
At the conclusion of trial before the district court judgment was rendered against General Electric Credit Corporation on its suit against Grubbs on the promissory note, and in favor of Grubbs on his cross claim against General Electric Credit Corporation.
General Electric Company and the United States were dismissed from the suit.
From this determination General Electric Credit Corporation appeals.
We need not detain ourselves with the merits of this controversy since we must at the outset, and on our own motion, recognize the total absence of federal jurisdiction.
We note that there never has been any allegation of diversity of citizenship between the parties to this suit.
Nor is there any basis for federal question jurisdiction.
The sole ground alleged for federal jurisdiction in the instant case rests on the government's right to remove under 1444, since it was named a defendant in Grubbs' interpleader suit.
We think it clear beyond peradventure, however, that removal jurisdiction based on 1444 is justified only if a viable interpleader action is filed naming the United States as a party defendant.
In the instant case we think that Grubbs' attempt to join the United States as a defendant under Rule 22 was obviously frivolous.
The interpleader rule, Rule 22, Fed.R.Civ.P., provides: The requirement that the plaintiff "is or may be exposed to double or multiple liability" has always been interpreted to demand a showing that the plaintiff has been or may be subjected to adverse claims to a particular fund.
See 3A J. Moore, Federal Practice ¶ 22.02.
In the more common case the requisite adversity is provided when the stakeholder is faced with two or more claims which are mutually inconsistent; a decision in favor of one claimant necessarily requires a determination that the other claimants are not entitled to any part of the fund.
As the Supreme Court explained in Texas v. Florida , 1939, 306 U.S. 398, 406, 412 , 59 S.Ct. 563, 568, 570 , 83 L.Ed. 817, 825, 828 : Farley v. Blood 30 N.H. 354, 361 Bedell v. Hoffman 2 Paige, N.Y., 199, 200 Mohawk & Hudson River R. Co. v. Clute 4 Paige, N.Y., 384, 392 Atkinson v. Manks 1 Cow.N.Y., 691, 703 Pacific Nat.
Bank v. Mixter 124 U.S. 721 8 S.Ct. 718 31 L.Ed. 567 Provident Sav. Life Assur.
Soc. v. Loeb, C. C. 115 F. 357 Sherman Nat.
Bank v. Shubert Theatrical Co., D.C. 238 F. 225 247 F. 256 Illingworth v. Rowe 52 N.J.Eq.
360 28 A. 456 Carter v. Cryer 68 N.J.Eq.
24 59 A. 233 Interpleader has more recently been allowed in a second situation where the claims against the plaintiff are not technically inconsistent in the sense noted above.
In this situation the plaintiff stakeholder is allowed the benefits of interpleader if he has a strictly limited liability and the claims asserted, although not mutually exclusive, are in excess of the limited liability.
In this situation the claims are adverse in the sense that as a practical matter all claims cannot be satisfied from the limited fund.
See, e. g. , State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v. Tashire , 1967, 386 U.S. 523 , 87 S.Ct. 1199 , 18 L.Ed.2d 270 .
Clearly, unless the plaintiff can demonstrate that he has been or may be subjected to claims adverse in either of the above respects, then he has failed to meet the requirements of the interpleader rule and the action must be dismissed.
Fulton v. Kaiser Steel Corp. , 5 Cir. 1968, 397 F.2d 580 ; Francis I. duPont & Co. v. O'Keefe , 7 Cir. 1966, 365 F.2d 141 ; Bierman v. Marcus , 3 Cir. 1957, 246 F.2d 200 ; New York Life Ins. Co. v. Valz , 5 Cir. 1944, 141 F.2d 1014 .
In the instant case Grubbs satisfied neither standard.
It is patently obvious that we do not have a situation where the party seeking interpleader relief is exposed to multiple liability on one obligation due to inconsistent claims.
The cross-plaintiff Grubbs has not even asserted that he is not liable individually to each of the judgment holders, including the United States.
Indeed, the record indicates that he very probably is liable to each of the judgment holders.
Grubbs cannot, therefore, claim the benefits of Rule 22 interpleader to avoid multiple liability because he has not shown that in fact he is only singly liable.
Nor does Grubbs qualify for the second type of adversity which has been found to justify interpleader relief.
He cannot be said to stand in the position of a stakeholder whose strictly limited liability is subjected to claims which aggregately exceed the liability limit.
It is apparent from the record that Grubbs, if liable at all, has unlimited liability.
He is the primary debtor, not, for example, a surety with limited liability.
The most that he could claim is that as a matter of fact his ability to pay is limited.
This is an entirely different assertion, and we think it falls short of the requisite adversity necessary to entitle one to interpleader relief.
See Fulton v. Kaiser Steel Corp. , supra , 397 F.2d at 583 , where the court noted that interpleader should be denied if the claims do not exceed the maximum legal liability or if the stakeholder is "not the surety but the contract debtor himself."
We conclude, therefore, that Grubbs has totally failed to bring his case within either of the two situations in which interpleader actions are sanctioned.
His suit against the United States should accordingly have been dismissed at the outset.
In this case the failure of Grubbs' interpleader action has more than the usual consequences because the very jurisdiction of the court depended upon a determination that a viable interpleader action had been asserted.
We think it manifest that mere pleading, calling for the joinder of the United States under Rule 22, was insufficient to confer federal jurisdiction under 1444 if the claim was not one which came within the interpleader rule.
Wallach v. Cannon , 8 Cir. 1966, 357 F.2d 557 .
As we have demonstrated, the attempted interpleader was entirely without justification under Rule 22.
1 As a result, the United States was never subjected to a viable suit in which property on which it had a lien was in jeopardy as provided in 2410.
Consequently, the district court and this court have no further jurisdiction over this case under the removal provisions of 1444.
Interpleader is no surrogate for bankruptcy, receivership, and other creditor disputes.
We have no present stake, no present holder, and a woefully incomplete conclave of creditors.
The United States came on stage when called and moved the scene to a federal forum, but it had no real role in the drama, nor could it have.
To premise federal jurisdiction on such a supernumerary position is untenable.
The federal blanket just will not stretch that far.
We therefore remand this case to the district court with instructions that the case be remanded to the state court for appropriate disposition.
Remanded.
