 WEICK , Circuit Judge.
Wedding appeals from the denial by the District Court of his petition for a writ of habeas corpus after an evidentiary hearing conducted by a United States Magistrate.
Wedding is presently serving a life sentence imposed in 1949 by the Webster Circuit Court of Kentucky after a plea of guilty to a charge of murder.
He had filed his petition for the writ in the District Court in 1971, alleging among other things that his counsel was not appointed until the day of the trial; that he was not advised of his right of trial by jury; and that his guilty plea was coerced by threat of a possible death sentence.
Wedding's petition was denied without a hearing.
He appealed to this Court and we reversed and remanded with instructions to conduct an evidentiary hearing on the petitioner's claims of constitutional violation.
456 F.2d 245 (6th Cir. 1972).
Upon remand, a United States Magistrate, acting pursuant to a rule adopted by the District Court, issued an order assigning the evidentiary hearing to himself.
Prior to this hearing, however, the petitioner moved to disqualify the Magistrate from holding such hearing on the ground that a Magistrate was not authorized and empowered under authority of the Federal Magistrates Act of 1968 ( 28 U.S.C. 631 to 639 (1973 supp.)) to hold evidentiary hearings.
That motion was overruled by the District Court.
The evidentiary hearing was then conducted by the Magistrate on June 26, 1972, at which time an electronic recording was made of the testimony of the witnesses.
Thereafter the Magistrate adopted findings of fact and conclusions of law, in writing, ruling that no constitutional right of petitioner had been violated, and recommending that the petition be dismissed.
The Magistrate submitted to the Court his findings and conclusions, together with a recording (a plastic phonograph record) of the proceedings.
The petitioner moved to have the Court give the matter de novo consideration.
The Court listened to the recording and adopted the findings of fact and conclusions of law of the Magistrate as his own, and dismissed the petition as without merit.
The petitioner has again appealed to this Court, contending that the proceedings of the District Court were invalid because the United States Magistrate had no authority under the Act to conduct an evidentiary hearing on his habeas corpus petition.
We agree.
The Federal Magistrates Act of 1968, 28 U.S.C. 631 to 639 (1973 Supp.) provides in relevant part: 28 U.S.C. 636 Pursuant to this statute, the Judges of the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky signed an Order which amended Rule 16, Rules of that District, by adding to paragraph (c)(3) the following: The interpretation by the rule which the Western District of Kentucky has placed upon the congressional grant of power to United States Magistrates is, in our opinion, incorrect.
1 The Act granted authority to the Magistrate to conduct only a preliminary review of applications for post-trial relief in order to facilitate the decision of the District Court as to whether there should be a hearing.
This Court, in its mandate, had already directed that an evidentiary hearing be conducted.
This rule of the District Court, quoted above, attempts to expand the jurisdiction of the Magistrate and, as will be pointed out, conflicts with the Act, and is therefore invalid.
Our analysis begins with Holiday v. Johnston , 313 U.S. 342 , 61 S.Ct. 1015 , 85 L.Ed. 1392 (1941), wherein the Court assessed the respondent's claim that a United States Commissioner (the predecessor of the United States Magistrate) could conduct evidentiary hearings for habeas corpus by virtue of Rule 53(a) and (b) of the Rules of Civil Procedure.
The Court stated: habeas corpus 313 U.S. at 351-352 61 S.Ct. at 1018 By virtue of Holiday , the conduct of habeas corpus hearings by United States Commissioners became a dead issue.
Subsequently, however, Congress modified the habeas corpus statute so to provide that "[t]he court shall summarily hear and determine the facts, and dispose of the matter as law and justice require", rather than "[t]he court , or justice or judge , shall proceed in a summary way to determine the facts of the case .
.
."
as was formerly provided.
28 U.S.C. 2243 (1971).
(Emphasis added.)
The same judicial district involved in this case, the Western District of Kentucky, interpreted this modification of the habeas corpus statute as a new authorization by Congress to have officers other than United States Judges, hold habeas corpus evidentiary hearings.
In Payne v. Wingo , 442 F.2d 1192 (6th Cir. 1971), we squarely rejected this interpretation.
We stated therein: Holiday Section 2243 442 F.2d at 1194-1195 It is within this context that the interpretation placed upon 28 U.S.C. 636(b) (1973 Supp.) by the Western District of Kentucky must be analyzed.
The respondent implicitly concedes that authorization for Magistrates to hold evidentiary hearings on habeas corpus petitions is not found in subpart, (3) of 28 U.S.C. 636(b) (1973 Supp.) That section clearly limits the duties of a Magistrate to a review of habeas corpus applications "to facilitate the decision of the district judge having jurisdiction over the case as to whether there should be a hearing ."
(Emphasis added.)
28 U.S.C. 636(b)(3) (1973 Supp.) Respondent's construction actually conflicts with the plain language of this subsection.
However, respondent relies upon language immediately preceding subpart (3) of Section 636(b) for authorization of evidentiary hearings by Magistrates.
In introducing the explicitly granted powers of United States Magistrates, Congress stated: but are not limited to 28 U.S.C. 636(b) From this language respondent deduces that Congress invested in extra-judicial officials trial powers which it had for so many years withheld.
The inaccuracy of this deduction is manifest.
If Congress intended such a sweeping and far-reaching result certainly it would have indicated this clearly and positively within the body of the Magistrates Act of 1968.
Cf. , Buckeye Power, Inc. v. Environmental Protection Agency , 481 F.2d 162 at 168 (6th Cir. 1973).
More important, such an interpretation runs directly counter to the well-established doctrine of statutory construction denominated ejusdem generis .
This doctrine directs that a general provision of a statute will be controlled and limited by subsequent statutory language more specific in scope.
The Supreme Court in Fourco Glass Co. v. Transmirra Prods. Corp. , 353 U.S. 222, 228-229 , 77 S.Ct. 787, 791-792 , 1 L.Ed.2d 786 (1957), articulated the rule as follows: Ginsberg & Sons v. Popkin 285 U.S. 204, 208 52 S.Ct. 322, 323 76 L.Ed. 704 MacEvoy Co. v. United States 322 U.S. 102, 107 64 S.Ct. 890, 894 88 L.Ed. 1163 Therefore, although the Magistrates Act of 1968 provides that Magistrates are "not restricted to" the three powers explicitly outlined in the Act, by virtue of ejusdem generis those three powers are exclusive on the topics which they cover.
Accordingly, insofar as habeas corpus is concerned, Magistrates have only the power to assist the District Judge in determining "whether there should be a hearing."
28 U.S.C. 636(b)(3) (1973 Supp.).
The legislative history of Section 636(b) of 28 U.S.C. supports this proposition.
The original draft of the subsection in the Senate Bill provided that the Magistrate could give: The Judicial Conference of the United States in September, 1966, sent to the Senate a report of its Committee on Criminal Law, which report it had adopted, and which stated as to Section 636(b) : Section 636(b) In order to foreclose a broad interpretation of Section 636(b)(3) which would make it vulnerable to constitutional attack, the original Bill was amended and the phrase, "preliminary consideration of applications for post-trial relief" in the Bill was narrowed to "preliminary review" of the applications and the power and authority of the Magistrate was restricted to "submission of a report and recommendations to facilitate the decision of the district judge" only as to "whether there should be a hearing."
It was in this amended and narrowed form that the Act was passed by Congress.
Contemplating the possibility that this Court might reject its argument that a Magistrate has the power to conduct evidentiary hearings for habeas corpus, the respondent advances a second, alternative argument in support of the proceedings below.
In its brief, respondent states: To the extent that the respondent argues that the petitioner was given an evidentiary hearing "before a district judge" because he (the Judge) thereafter listened to a sound recording of the hearing before the Magistrate, we are not persuaded.
2 With equal propriety it could be argued that any civil case could be heard by a Magistrate and the Judge could later decide the case by listening to the sound recording.
The Magistrate would indeed become an Assistant Judge.
Rule 52(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure provides that a District Judge, sitting without a jury, is to make findings of fact and that these findings are not to be set aside by an appellate court unless they are clearly erroneous.
The principle which underlies this rule was expressed by the Supreme Court in United States v. Yellow Cab Co. , 338 U.S. 338, 341 , 70 S.Ct. 177, 179 , 94 L.Ed. 150 (1949), as follows: see Deference is given to the factual findings of a trial judge because he has seen and observed the demeanor of the witnesses and their "[o]utward manner or comportment."
Webster's New International Dictionary (2d ed. 1956).
Listening to a sound recording of the testimony of a witness does not permit a Judge to see and observe the demeanor of witnesses and make credibility determinations therefrom.
Furthermore, it must be noted that an essential ingredient of a hearing before a Judge without a jury is the opportunity afforded to the Judge for questioning of witnesses.
By his questioning of witnesses the Judge can clarify matters of evidence which are unclear; he can rule on objections made by the parties; and in the interest of justice he can make sure that both parties have had a fair hearing.
By seeing and hearing the witnesses he will be in a much better position to make credibility determinations.
Needless to say, the District Judge in this case could not ask questions of the sound recording.
In our opinion, Wedding had the right to have his case heard by an Article III Judge.
In sum, petitioner did not have a hearing before a District Judge, either in form or in substance, as we ordered in our mandate.
In regard to the entire posture of this case, a recent admonition of this Court should be borne in mind.
In Ingram v. Richardson , 471 F.2d 1268 (6th Cir. 1972), we stated: by a court 471 F.2d at 1271 We vacate the judgment of dismissal and remand the case with instructions that the Court itself hold an evidentiary hearing on petitioner's constitutional claims.
3 In so doing, we are impelled to note that the phonographic record of the evidentiary hearing was made a part of the record to this Court, apparently in lieu of a transcript.
Such procedure was unauthorized.
It renders impossible a review by this Court of the record without listening to the sound recording, and it contravenes Rule 10 of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure and Rule 10 of this Court.
Vacated and remanded.
