 JONES , Circuit Judge.
The facts from which this controversy arose were stipulated.
In June, 1966, Emsco Screen Pipe Company of Texas entered into separate contracts with the Department of the Navy, the Department of the Army and the Defense Supply Agency for materials and supplies to be furnished thereafter.
Emsco defaulted.
The Navy terminated its contract on August 31, 1966.
The Army terminated on December 6, 1966, and Defense Supply on October 19, 1966.
Emsco made a voluntary assignment for the benefit of its creditors on October 20, 1966, to Thomas W. Moore, Jr.
It was stipulated that "All of the .
.
.
.
claims were finalized 1 as to exact amounts after the aforesaid assignment."
The assets in the hands of the assignee were insufficient to discharge all claims in full.
The United States brought an action against the assignee and asserted priority under 31 U.S.C.A. 191 2 .
The district court concluded that the statute gave priority and entered judgment for the United States.
The assignee has appealed.
The question to be decided is whether there were "debts due to the United States" from Emsco at the time it made its assignment for the benefit of creditors.
The statute providing priority and the phrase "debts due" are not new.
The present statute is not very different from the version incorporated in the revised statute.
3 The phrase is, it seems, included in an Act of Congress of 1797.
See Prince v. Bartlett , 12 U.S. (8 Cranch) 431 , 3 L.Ed. 614 .
The word "debt" has been many times defined and given many varied meanings.
The definitions range from the duty to return a social courtesy to legal obligations of many kinds.
26 C.J.S., p. 1, Debt, et seq.
It has been said that a debt is an obligation to render something to someone else.
In searching for the meaning of a term of so many different meanings in different contexts, we look to the meaning which it had when it was used in the first priority statute enacted by the Congress.
At that time the basic law of all of the states, both substantive and procedural, was the common law.
One of the common law actions was the action of debts.
"The action of debt lies where a party claims the recovery of a debt, i. e. a liquidated or certain sum of money alleged to be due to him."
Stephen, Principles of Pleading, 8th Am.Ed., p. 13, 1859.
Such was the meaning of the word "debt" at the time of the earliest priority enactment.
Such is the meaning of the word in the present Statute.
The United States had claims for damages for breach of contract.
The stipulation expressly states that the claims were not finalized when the assignment was made.
The claims were not for sums certain or which could be made certain by mathematical computation.
They were not liquidated.
Because the claims of the United States were not for fixed and certain amounts and presently payable, they were not debts due.
Since it is here determined that the claims of the United States were not "debts due," the judgment of the district court will be reversed and the cause remanded for further appropriate proceedings.
Reversed and remanded.
