 TUTTLE , Circuit Judge: On May 2, 1973, appellee Mandujano appeared as a witness before the DALE (Drug Abuse Law Enforcement) Grand Jury, pursuant to a subpoena.
The following warnings were given Mandujano: Mandujano was further advised that he could have an attorney outside the grand jury room; however, he was not told that he had a right to have appointed counsel outside the grand jury room, that what he said could be used against him in later proceedings, and that he had a right to remain silent.
1 A federal narcotics agent had reported that in March, 1973, he offered Mandujano money for the purchase of heroin and gave him $650 for the attempted purchase.
The government attorney who questioned Mandujano before the grand jury testified at the motion to suppress that he had discussed with the agent the circumstances of this attempted buy in preparation for Mandujano's appearance before the grand jury.
Evidence taken on the motion to suppress also showed that the government attorney requested suggestions for witnesses to be supoenaed before the grand jury from the agent who had dealt with Mandujano and the agent recommended calling Mandujano and then reported to the attorney how the actual attempt had occurred.
Mandujano was asked the following questions, inter alia , by the government attorney before the grand jury: This interrogation tracked the exact facts of the actual contact between the federal narcotics agent and Mandujano.
The appellee was subsequently indicted in count 1 under 21 U.S.C.A. 846 for attempt to distribute one ounce of heroin on or about the 29th of March, 1973, and in count 2 under 18 U.S.C.A. 1623 for making false representations.
The perjury count was based on Mandujano's denial before the grand jury of any attempt to obtain or sell heroin or any solicitation to do so. The district court granted appellee's motion to suppress his testimony before the grand jury, finding that appellee was a virtual or putative defendant in custody under the Miranda 2 decision, and therefore should have been given all Miranda warnings.
United States v. Mandujano , 365 F.Supp.
155 (W.D.Tex.
1973).
The district court determined that the warnings given were inadequate and that appellee could not be deemed to have voluntarily waived his Fifth Amendment right to remain silent.
Appellee was convicted under count 1 for attempt to distribute heroin, without use of his grand jury testimony.
I. "PUTATIVE OR VIRTUAL" DEFENDANT Given the nature of the investigation and the questions tendered by the government attorney, the district court held, and this Court agrees, that full Miranda warnings should have been accorded Mandujano who was in the position of a virtual or putative defendant.
The district court aptly portrayed the circumstances warranting the fact finding that Mandujano was a virtual or putative defendant during his appearance before the grand jury: United States v. Leighton 265 F.Supp.
27 390 U.S. 1025 88 S.Ct. 1412 20 L.Ed.2d 282 United States v. Montos 421 F.2d 215 397 U.S. 1022 90 S.Ct. 1262 25 L.Ed.2d 532 United States v. Mandujano 365 F.Supp.
at 158-159 3 We construe the foregoing statements by the trial court to be findings that the government had focused upon Mandujano as someone whom the government had knowledge of having committed a crime, as a person whom the government had planned to indict as it had one eye on prosecution, and against whom it was gathering incriminating evidence.
Also the discussion indicates that the trial court found that when Mandujano was brought into the grand jury room, the government then knew that an affirmative answer to questions put to him would amount to a confession of guilt of trafficking in heroin.
Although this Court has recently pretermitted the question of the scope of Miranda in the context of a putative defendant before a grand jury investigation, United States v. Morado , 454 F.2d 167 (5th Cir. 1972) and Mattox v. Carson , 424 F.2d 202 (5th Cir. 1970), cert. denied, 400 U.S. 822 , 91 S.Ct. 43 , 27 L.Ed.2d 51 (1971), we have recognized that as a general rule a grand jury witness is not entitled to warnings of his right to appointed counsel and his right to remain silent.
4 The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, however, has carved out the exception that when a person ceases to be merely a witness in a general investigation and becomes placed "virtually in the position of a defendant," then the full panoply of rights under Miranda due a person in custody must be afforded.
See United States v. Luxenberg , 374 F.2d 241 (6th Cir. 1967); United States v. Fruchtman , 282 F.Supp.
534 (N.D.Ohio 1968), cert. denied, 400 U.S. 849 , 91 S.Ct. 39 , 27 L.Ed.2d 86 (1970); Stanley v. United States , 245 F.2d 427 (6th Cir. 1957).
5 In United States v. Morado , supra at 173 , we have already recognized the force of the argument that if an investigation has passed beyond the stage of a general inquiry and has focused upon the defendant, then the defendant would be in the position of a virtual defendant: Miranda United States v. Phelps 443 F.2d 246 United States v. Akin 435 F.2d 1011 United States v. Montos 421 F.2d 215 Bendelow v. United States 418 F.2d 42 Windsor v. United States 389 F.2d 530 The language in Morado is particularly applicable in the case at bar because this investigation clearly had passed beyond the stage of general inquiry into an unsolved crime, and had focused upon the defendant as someone whom the government had planned to indict as it had one eye on prosecution, against whom it was gathering incriminating evidence, and against whom indictments were actually returned.
6 The fact that the questioning attorney immediately pounced upon Mandujano's denial that he had been contacted about the sale of heroin, indicated a clear and direct focus upon Mandujano as a future defendant.
Moreover, the government attorney even mentioned the precise figure--$650--which had purportedly been given to Mandujano by the federal narcotics agent, plainly demonstrating that the previous transaction was clearly in the attorney's mind.
Also there was no basis for the perjury count of the indictment until after Mandujano's grand jury appearance.
When the government attorney, aware of the alleged prior transaction, asked Mandujano about any previous heroin solicitation or sale, he knew that any truthful answer by Mandujano would be incriminating and therefore protected by the Fifth Amendment which Mandujano was entitled to plead.
Thus, if the attorney proceeded to question actually anticipating an answer, he must have known that the response would require Mandujano to confess to a crime or commit perjury.
The likelihood of Mandujano confessing a crime before the grand jury was certainly de minimis.
The inference is easily drawn that the attorney's questioning was primarily baiting Mandujano to commit perjury.
As perceived by the district court this case "smacks" of entrapping Mandujano to incriminate himself or commit perjury.
His only "safe harbor" was to remain silent--a right of which the government failed to inform him.
The government asserts that since Mandujano negotiated for a heroin sale with the federal narcotics agent which did not result in a distribution due to appellee's being unable to procure heroin from his sources, therefore the government agents concluded that appellee must have had knowledge of a source for heroin.
Consequently he was called before the grand jury only to obtain intelligence regarding known heroin sources, consistent with the purposes of the grand jury, and not in an attempt to obtain incriminating or perjurous statements from him.
Nevertheless, as concluded by the district court, "the facts of the case belie the government's protestations of innocent intent with respect to the possibility of future prosecution."
Moreover, the questions tendered by the government attorney simply could have inquired whether Mandujano knew any heroin dealers rather than focusing on whether anyone had ever solicited heroin from him.
Moreover, the warnings that were given were not adequate advisement even of the appellee's Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination.
As pointed out by the trial court, the questioning attorney "stressed not the right to remain silent, but the requirement that the defendant answer all the questions put to him, with limited exceptions.
He did not stress the alternative of the defendant remaining silent in the face of a potentially [here certainly] damaging question."
Under the circumstances of this case, this Court agrees that Mandujano was a putative defendant in custody and was entitled to Miranda warnings.
II.
REMEDY FOR FAILURE TO GIVE MIRANDA WARNINGS The more difficult issue here is whether the usual remedy for failure to give constitutional warnings, i. e., suppression of the testimony, can ever be employed in a situation where the testimony itself amounted to perjury.
Appellant relies heavily on United States v. Orta , 253 F.2d 312 (5th Cir. 1958), to convince us that "[u]nder no circumstances" can a grand jury "witness" commit perjury and then successfully claim that the Constitution affords him protection from prosecution for that crime.
Witness Orta was charged with having committed perjury at a grand jury investigation.
The district court suppressed Orta's grand jury testimony, but this Court reversed, broadly stating, supra at 314 : Fifth Amendment witness Under no circumstances, however, could he commit perjury and successfully claim that the Constitution afforded him protection from prosecution for that crime Glickstein v. United States 222 U.S. 139, 142 32 S.Ct. 71, 73 56 L.Ed. 128 United States v. Scully 225 F.2d 113, 116 Fifth Amendment There is no showing that the Grand Jury before which Orta testified was seeking to indict him or any other person already identified Although clearly holding that a mere "witness" uninformed of his rights before the grand jury, even one concerning whom there is a "mere possibility" of indictment, may not commit perjury with impunity, the Orta court sounded the important caveat that the question of supervision of the conduct of government representatives in the interest of fairness may be debatable in some circumstances.
The language in the Orta opinion, supra at 314 , highlights the important distinction between Orta and this case, demonstrating the wisdom of the caveat concerning the court's duty of supervision "in the interest of fairness."
The instant case does not involve a mere "witness," but a putative, and subsequently actual, defendant.
The facts showed that there was a mere possibility that a witness may later be indicted, but that the government deliberately subpoenaed a putative defendant before the grand jury primarily for the purpose of obtaining incriminating or perjurous statements against him and mainly in order to elicit evidence helpful in indicting him.
Several decisions of this Court, such as Orta , Daniels , Glasco , Stassi and Wilcox , 7 have involved perjurous testimony and the adequacy of the instruction as to constitutional rights; however, the precise issue of a putative defendant who was primarily called before the grand jury for the purpose of obtaining incriminating or perjurous statements and mainly in order to elicit evidence helpful in indicting him has not been presented to this Court.
Although there are factually overlapping features of the cases to be discussed, we have concluded that the totality of circumstances in the case at bar calls clearly for this Court to affirm the district court's suppression of Mandujano's testimony before the grand jury.
As heinous as the crime of perjury is under our law, and as correct as the Orta principle is, that a witness uninformed of his constitutional rights generally should not be afforded a license to commit perjury, under our law, we simply cannot ignore the unfairness in baiting this defendant before the grand jury and overlook the principle that the Fifth Amendment must always be as broad as the mischief against which it seeks to guard.
In order to deter the prosecuting officers from bringing a putative or virtual defendant before the grand jury, for the purpose of obtaining incriminating or perjurous testimony, the accused must be adequately apprised of his rights, or all of his testimony, incriminating and perjurous, will be suppressed.
In order to combat these methods the Fifth Amendment privilege must be fully honored in this situation.
This end entails only slight erosion of the general principle announced in Orta .
This deviation in the situation of a putative defendant uninformed of his Miranda rights and called for the purpose of obtaining incriminating or perjurous testimony is necessary to counteract the fundamental unfairness of allowing a defendant to be faced by such a Hobson's choice.
In distinguishing Orta , we distinguish the other cases, cited above rendered after the date of Miranda , which reaffirmed the Orta principle (pre Miranda ), as none of these decisions concerned the situation of a putative defendant entitled to, but unadvised of, his Miranda warnings.
The problem here is the problem adverted to in the dictum in Orta , and not the problem adjudicated by the Orta holding or by any other decisions of this Court.
As previously indicated, the grand jury was not seeking to indict Orta and Orta was not a putative defendant entitled to Miranda warnings.
Orta was an ordinary witness entitled to a general Fifth Amendment warning.
The district court, apparently determined that in view of the subsequent holding in Miranda , there was now an essential difference between a prosecution for perjury when there have been no Miranda warnings and the suppression of testimony under the exclusionary rule, when such warnings have not been given, i. e., that although the indictment could not have been dismissed, the testimony could nonetheless have been suppressed.
This distinction would be a facile solution to the difficult question here, were it not for the language in United States v. Glasco , 488 F.2d 1068 (5th Cir. 1974), intervening between the district court's decision in the case at bar and the instant appeal, indicating that Orta had "post Miranda vitality."
In Glasco the defendant witness , who was in custody for another crime, had perjured himself when testifying in the trial of another defendant and the court held that a motion to suppress was properly denied.
Again, however, Glasco concerned entirely different facts, and an entirely different procedure.
Glasco was not put up as a witness to give evidence incriminating himself.
He had already pleaded guilty to the same offense.
Here, the agent reported that he believed Mandujano had committed the narcotics offense charged in court 1, and the government proceeded to subpoena Mandujano before the grand jury and asked him the precise questions dealing with a transaction that led to his being indicted by this same grand jury.
Moreover, since Glasco appeared at a trial as a defense witness, he apparently appeared voluntarily and not by the compulsion of a subpoena issued on behalf of the government.
Furthermore, the two cases cited in Glasco , Wilcox and Stassi , also involved factual circumstances so dissimilar from those of the instant case that they need not be discussed.
Both cases quoted from the Orta opinion.
One final case, United States v. Daniels , 461 F.2d 1076 (5th Cir. 1972), which was noted by the district court, discusses the applicability of Orta to persons who commit perjury before a grand jury.
Grand jury witness Daniels signed a "Waiver of Privilege Against Self-Incrimination" which advised that a witness could consult with an attorney outside the grand jury room but contained no statement with respect to the appointment of counsel for indigent witnesses, and proceeded to give perjurous testimony to the grand jury.
Daniels conceded that generally there is no right to counsel for ordinary witnesses appearing before the grand jury, but argued that when an indigent witness who is advised that he may have an attorney present, must also be advised that if he is unable to provide his own counsel, one will be appointed for him free of cost.
Finding that Daniels was "only a witness" and "was not under indictment when he appeared," the court held that he was not entitled to appointed counsel.
The important distinguishing factors are that Daniels did not argue that he was entitled to Miranda warnings, but only contended that since a witness could have retained counsel, he should have been advised that indigent witnesses may have appointed counsel free of cost.
Furthermore, the court clearly delineated that Daniels was only a witness and not a putative defendant.
Therefore, the latter portion of the decision which concludes that Daniels, even if entitled to counsel and deemed not to have waived his rights, would still have no license to commit perjury is a reaffirmation of the general principle announced in Orta and is to be distinguished completely from the situation of a putative defendant entitled to Miranda warnings who is called before the grand jury for the purpose of obtaining incriminating or perjurous testimony.
We reiterate that the Orta principle that witnesses uninformed of their constitutional rights should not be allowed a license to commit perjury continues with full force.
We only make a slight inroad that where a totally unfair procedure is put in train--as when there is a factual determination that a person who is subpoenaed before the grand jury and questioned about an alleged crime, was already known to the satisfaction of the prosecuting agency prior to the grand jury appearance to be guilty of that precise crime--, elemental fairness requires that such a person is under such compulsion as to require that he be given the Miranda warnings, and that failure to do so must require suppression of any incriminating testimony given by him even though he is being prosecuted for giving false testimony.
The remaining question arises from the principle that the Fifth Amendment protection against self-incrimination extends only to past acts, not to those that are or may be committed in the future.
As stated in Glickstein v. United States , 222 U.S. 139 , 32 S.Ct. 71 , 56 L.Ed. 128 (1952), [quoted by the Orta court, as stated infra ], " the immunity afforded by the constitutional guaranty relates to the past, and does not endow the person who testifies with a license to commit perjury."
The appellant urges that when the defendant Mandujano appeared before the grand jury, he had not committed the perjury and that his criminal liability concurred with his utterance before the grand jury.
Therefore, the perjury indictment was not premised upon evidence of past acts obtained from the mouth of the defendant, but was based on a crime whose very commission, rather than evidence of commission, was the defendant's testimony.
Glickstein v. United States , supra , concerned a bankrupt who was indicted for perjury for having falsely sworn in a bankruptcy proceeding while under examination before a referee.
Once again, we must point to the distinguishing characteristics in the facts and the proceedings in this case. The entire proceedings here which led up to Mandujano's indictment for perjury were, as we have noted repeatedly, beyond the pale of permissible prosecutorial conduct .
8 We conclude that the entire proceeding was a violation of Mandujano's due process rights under the Fifth Amendment .
We, of course, do not attempt an axiomatic definition of due process, but note the well known language from Betts v. Brady , 316 U.S. 455, 462 , 62 S.Ct. 1252, 1256 , 86 L.Ed. 1595 (1941), overruled on other grounds, Gideon v. Wainwright , 372 U.S. 335 , 83 S.Ct. 792 , 9 L.Ed.2d 799 (1962): Although the application of the standard set in Betts v. Brady , supra , was overruled in Gideon v. Wainwright , supra , it is clear that the test remains the same.
Was the conduct (refusal to appoint counsel) so "offensive to the common and fundamental ideas of fairness" as to amount to a denial of due process.
316 U.S. at 473 .
We conclude simply that the proceedings here complained of met that standard.
We believe this not to be inconsistent with any prior decision of this Court, all of which dealt only with the specific rights guaranteed by the self-incrimination clause of the Fifth Amendment .
The judgment is affirmed.
