 SPOTTSWOOD W. ROBINSON, III , Circuit Judge: On behalf of all blacks who have unsuccessfully sought appointment to the District of Columbia Metropolitan Police Department since 1968, appellants intervened in this class action 1 to assert the claim that Test 21, a written entrance examination administered to all applicants, discriminates against blacks in violation of the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment and federal civil rights laws.
2 The District Court concluded [**44] that Test 21 was nondiscriminatory in design and operation and was "reasonably and directly related to the requirements of the police recruit training program."
3 The court entered summary judgment for the defendants, appellees here, 4 and this appeal followed.
5 We hold that appellants have demonstrated on the record that Test 21 has a racially disproportionate impact, 6 and that appellees have not met their heavy burden of showing that the test is related to job performance.
7 .
Accordingly, we reverse the summary judgment and remand for further proceedings.
I. THE APPLICABLE LEGAL STANDARD A. The Facts Applicants are appointed to positions in the Metropolitan Police Department if they satisfy character and physical standards, have a high school diploma or the equivalent, and receive a raw score of 40 or above on Test 21.
8 The test was developed by the Civil Service Commission for general use throughout the federal service as a measure of verbal ability, rather than specifically to measure the full range of skills required to perform the tasks of a police officer.
9 The Department was not involved in the formulation of Test 21.
Appellants tendered to the District Court statistical evidence purportedly demonstrating that Test 21 has a disproportionate impact on black applicants.
Among the applicants tested in the District of Columbia from 1968 through 1971, 57% of the blacks failed the test, as compared to a failure rate of 13% for [**45] whites.
10 Although black applicants thus failed Test 21 at a rate more than four times greater than the rate for whites, appellees dispute the capability of these statistics to prove a racially disproportionate impact.
They further contend that, regardless of the sufficiency of this evidence, Test 21 can be used in selecting police officers because it is sufficiently job related.
In support of the latter proposition, they offer a validity study 11 conducted under the auspices of the Civil Service Commission demonstrating, they claim, that scores on Test 21 accurately predict performance in Recruit School, the Department's police training program.
B. The Griggs Standard In Griggs v. Duke Power Co., 12 the Supreme Court considered the legality of standarized intelligence tests under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
13 "If an employment practice which operates to exclude Negroes cannot be shown to be related to job performance," the Court said, "the practice is prohibited."
14 Once it is shown that a particular selection procedure has an exclusionary effect on minority applicants, there is a heavy burden on the employer to show that discriminatory procedure "bear[s] a demonstrable relationship to successful performance of the jobs for which they were used."
15 In the instant case, if appellants' evidence is sufficient to show an exclusionary impact on black applicants, and we hold that it is, 16 then the Department must shoulder the heavy burden of justifying Test 21 by demonstrating that results on the test are satisfactorily related to successful performance of the job of a police officer.
The District Court ruled that appellants' showings (a) that the number of black police officers in the Department is not proportionate to the population mix of the District, (b) that a higher percentage of blacks fail Test 21 than whites, and (c) that Test 21 has not been validated to show its reliability for measuring job performance, shifted the burden of proof to appellees.
17 We reach the same conclusion on the basis of the racially disproportionate impact that Test 21 is shown to have.
18 The District Court further ruled, however, that Test 21 is exonerated by a direct and reasonable relationship to the requirements of the Department's police training program.
19 We deem that insufficient, and finding Test 21 not otherwise demonstrated to be job related, we hold that appellees have not met their burden.
20 II.
THE RACIALLY DISPROPORTIONATE IMPACT OF TEST 21 The evidence in the record establishes that the percentage of black failures on Test 21 is far greater than white [**46] failures.
21 The cases hold, and we agree, that evidence establishing that significantly more blacks than whites fail a written entrance examination given to all applicants is sufficient, as a matter of law, to show the racially disproportionate impact of the examination.
22 The disparity disclosed in this case--more than four to one--is larger than differences held sufficiently disproportionate in other cases.
23 Indeed, absent evidence revealing some other reason for the lopsided failure rates appearing here, it is difficult to imagine how disproportionate effect could ever be better demonstrated.
The District appellees contend that the court could properly find that appellants had not made the necessary showing simply by considering the relationship between the percentage of blacks in the Metropolitan Police Department and the percentage of black population in the community.
24 They assert that other courts have been more concerned with that type of information than with pass-fail rates.
Our research discloses, however, that population data have been considered judicially for only two purposes.
There are a number of cases that have held population data alone sufficient to show racially disproportionate impact, but in the apparent absence of data on pass-fail rates.
25 Other courts have noted population data merely to corroborate a showing of racially disproportionate impact based on pass-fail rates.
26 There is no authority--and we decline to provide any--for the proposition that proof of a racially disproportionate impact must encompass both pass-fail rates and disparate population figures.
We think the precedents establish that either demonstration is legally sufficient to shift the burden of establishing job relatedness to the employer.
27 Appellees also urge us to consider the affirmative efforts of the Metropolitan Police Department to recruit black officers.
We think such efforts are irrelevant to the issue--the discriminatory effect of Test 21 itself.
The employer's lack of discriminatory intent was deemed irrelevant by the Supreme Court in Griggs ; "Congress directed the thrust of the [Civil Rights] Act to the consequences of employment practices," the [**47] Court admonished, "not simply the motivation."
28 Other courts have held that an employee challenging an employment practice as discriminatory need not prove a purpose on the employer's part to discriminate; 29 the only intent requirement is that the employer consciously perform the allegedly discriminatory act.
30 Thus it has been expressly held, and we agree, that efforts to recruit minority members have no bearing on a showing that an employment practice has a racially disproportionate impact.
31 Although the Department, quite commendably, has succeeded in increasing the proportion of black officers through vigorous efforts, it is self-evident that use of selection procedures that do not have a disparate effect on blacks would have resulted in an even greater percentage of black police officers than exists today.
32 The evidence this case lays bare is further corroborated by the "substantial body of evidence that black persons and other disadvantaged groups perform on the average far below the norm for whites on generalized intelligence or aptitude tests."
33 Judicial decisions on the "ever-extending series of challenges to civil service examinations" 34 unequivocally establish that blacks are test-rejected more frequently than whites.
35 This phenomenon is the result of the long history of educational deprivation, primarily due to segregated schools, for blacks.
36 Until arrival of the day when the effects of that deprivation have been completely dissipated, comparable performance on such tests can hardly be expected.
III.
JOB RELATEDNESS OF TEST 21 As a result of appellants' showing that Test 21 has a disproportionate racial impact, there is a heavy burden on appellees to prove that the examination bears a demonstrable relationship to successful performance as a member of the Metropolitan Police Department.
37 Appellees [**48] contend that they have met this burden by establishing a direct relationship between applicants' scores on Test 21 and recruits' average scores on examinations given in the Department's Recruit School.
38 We are compelled to view the evidence presented by appellees in that regard with some skepticism.
The assertion of predictive value of Test 21 for achievement in Recruit School is based upon a correlation between Test 21 scores and scores on written examinations given during a 17-week training course.
We think this evidence tends to prove nothing more than that a written aptitude test will accurately predict performance on a second round of written examinations, and nothing to counter this hypothesis has been presented to us. 39 But despite serious doubt as to the probative value of the evidence, 40 we are willing to assume for purposes of this appeal that appellees have shown that Test 21 is predictive of further progress in Recruit School.
The ultimate issue in this controversy then becomes whether that kind of proof is an acceptable substitute [**49] for a demonstration of a direct relationship between performance on Test 21 and performance on the job.
Appellees assert that their validity study 41 establishes that Test 21 is predictive of "trainability," and that therefore the examination survives the Griggs standard.
Appellants, on the other hand, have convincingly argued that the record evidence does not demonstrate a sufficient relationship between Test 21 scores and trainability.
All entrants into Recruit School pass the final examinations with a grade of 70 or above; if a particular candidate has difficulty, he is given assistance until he succeeds in passing the examinations.
42 The validity study revealed that persons with high Test 21 scores are more likely to achieve a final average exceeding 85 in Recruit School, 43 but there is no evidence to support the proposition that a candidate with an average below 85 is more difficult to train or will not be as good a police officer as a candidate with an average over 85.
44 Moreover, since applicants who scored below 40 on Test 21 have never been admitted to Recruit School, the validity study expressed no conclusion regarding the likely performance in Recruit School of Test 21 failures.
45 For these reasons, and because of the departmental policy that nobody fail Recruit School, 46 appellees have not shown that the admission of applicants who score below 40 on Test 21 into Recruit School would necessitate expanded training time 47 or produce Recruit School failures.
48 We might add that the Recruit School averages apparently have not been used by the Department for any purpose other than the attempt to validate Test 21 in this case. 49 The Griggs standard does not, in our opinion, permit validation by a criterion that the employer itself does not believe sufficiently job related.
Appellees maintain that there is support for their position in applicable legal precedents.
50 Claims similar to that [**50] have been made before, and the reported decisions on the point have uniformly rejected a correlation between entrance examination performance and training performance as a means of validating the entrance examination.
51 In a typical case, involving a written entrance examination given by the Philadelphia Police Department, 52 it was contended that the examination accurately predicted performance in the Department's Police Academy, as reflected in scores on Academy final written examinations.
53 The court refused to find the entrance test in that case job related for several reasons.
There was no correlation between Academy performance and effective job performance; 54 there was no showing that the Academy examinations were significantly different from the entrance exams, so the correlation might merely have indicated that the entrance examination predicated good scores on a second written test; 55 and there was no showing that applicants who failed the entrance examination would not do well in the Academy.
56 As further support for its conclusion, the court noted that no one had failed in the Academy in the past five years. 57 The similarity between that case and the case at bar is indeed striking, and the same result has been reached by at least three other courts.
58 Appellees further argue that convincing proof that an employment selection procedure, even one with a racially disproportionate impact, accurately predicts trainability might in some cases satisfy the Griggs standard.
59 Appellees have not, however, proffered such proof, nor have they persuaded us that trainability could be a proper criterion for validating Test 21.
As long as no one with a score below 40 enters Recruit School, as long as all recruits pass Recruit School, as long as the Department's actions concede that Recruit School average has little value in predicting job performance, and as long as there is no evidence of any correlation between the Recruit School average and job performance, we entertain [**51] grave doubts whether any of this type of evidence could be strengthened to the point of satisfying the heavy burden imposed by Griggs .
IV.
CONCLUSION The dissent is concerned, as are we, with preservation of the Department's ongoing efforts to improve its professional standards.
60 The District Court declined to read the controlling legal principles so that "brakes [would] be placed upon efforts to upgrade recruiting and job standards in law enforcement work."
61 The court apparently believed that the relief sought by appellants would necessarily lower recruitment standards and produce "a setback for blacks and whites alike."
62 We believe these fears are not well founded.
Elimination of Test 21 could result in lower standards only if it were job related, and appellees have not come forward with satisfactory evidence that Test 21 is job related.
The common sense theory of validity espoused by the dissent is clearly an inadequate response to appellants' proof of racially disproportionate impact.
63 The rationale is equivalent to a finding of construct validity without satisfying the prerequisites delineated in Douglas v. Hampton.
64 Appellants' complaint sought both declaratory and injunctive relief.
They are, as a matter of law, entitled to a declaration that Test 21 is invalid, and the conclusions we reach have in other cases served as the basis for enjoining the administration of entrance examinations and ordering affirmative relief.
65 The focus here, however, has been on the substantive issues, and the record lacks the factual development essential to a sound determination as to whether an injunction against use of Test 21 is warranted.
We leave that question open to consideration by the District Court, mindful that declaratory relief in accordance with this opinion might, in consequence of agreement by the parties or otherwise, obviate any need for the coercion of an injunction.
66 The judgment of the District Court is reversed.
Appellants' motion for partial summary judgment must be granted, 67 and appellees' respective motions for summary judgment denied.
68 The case is remanded to the District Court for entry of appropriate orders, and determination and effectuation of a suitable remedy, in harmony with this opinion.
