 MEDINA, Circuit Judge: S. William Green and others, shareholders of Kirby Lumber Corporation, individually and as such shareholders, suing on behalf of themselves and for the benefit of the corporation and for the class of all other minority shareholders of Kirby, appeal from an order of Judge Charles L. Brieant, Jr.
in the Southern District of New York, dismissing their amended complaint for failure of subject matter jurisdiction and for failure to state a claim on which relief can be granted.
The opinion below is reported at 391 F.Supp.
849 .
This important, interesting and complicated case involves a claim, framed in a double aspect, by minority shareholders and the class they represent arising out of S.E.C.
Rule 10b-5 concerning the purchase and sale of securities in interstate commerce in the setting of a short-form merger under the laws of the State of Delaware.
These laws permit a majority of 90% or more of the shareholders of a Delaware corporation to squeeze out the minority without giving prior notice of the intention to do so, without any statement of a justifiable corporate reason for the merger and upon payment to the minority shareholders of an amount of dollars per share specified in the terms of the merger.
The sole remedy of an objecting minority shareholder under these Delaware laws is to demand an appraisal of the value of his stock in a proceeding in the Delaware Court of Chancery.
1 The double aspect of the claim asserted in the complaint is: (1) that the Delaware procedure as applied to the facts of this case constitutes a "device, scheme, or artifice to defraud" because of the gross undervaluation by defendants of the shares the minority shareholders are forced to sell for $150 a share; and (2) that without any misrepresentation or failure to disclose relevant facts, the merger itself constitutes a violation of Rule 10b-5 because the mulcting of the minority shareholders is accomplished by a breach by the majority of its fiduciary duty to deal fairly with the minority who in effect are the cestuis of the majority.
This breach of fiduciary duty is the forcing of the minority to sell their stock at far less than it is worth against their will, and even without any opportunity to seek pre-merger relief from the courts, all for the enrichment of the majority who continue to hold their stock.
All this is alleged to be done at the expense of the corporation without any corporate purpose justifying the expenditure.
Jurisdiction is based upon Section 27 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C.
Section 78aa , and exists only if the amended complaint contains allegations that on their face make out a case of fraud within the meaning of Section 10(b) , 15 U.S.C.
Section 78j(b) and S.E.C.
Rule 10b-5 , 17 C.F.R. 240.10b-5 .
We do not reach the pendent and diversity claims.
The judge and counsel for all parties wisely agreed, for the purposes of the motion to dismiss, to consider the entire Information Statement, including the letter of Morgan Stanley & Co. of June 24, 1974, and all the annexed Exhibits, Schedules and Appraisals, as part of the amended complaint.
They also agreed to treat the allegation that the purpose of the merger was to freeze out the minority shareholders as a charge that this was not done for any justifiable corporate purpose.
The subject is discussed on this basis in the opinion below.
We would not have mentioned this subject had it not been for the fact that the defendants in a footnote on page 9 of their main brief make a halfhearted claim that by not mentioning the lack of a business purpose in their main brief the appellants had "abandoned this position."
We find no abandonment whatever of this very significant part of plaintiffs' claim.
Appellants may have given this phase of their contentions less emphasis in order to keep Morgan Stanley & Co. in the case.
I We do not write on a clean slate.
The background of judicial decisions is truly formidable, especially as the opinions contain so many dicta that may be thought by some to be ambiguous and so many seemingly unnecessary digressions.
Accordingly, we think it will be helpful to an understanding of this opinion as a whole if we refer at the outset, and before our outline of the facts, to the holdings of this Court on two of the law points crucial to the disposition of this appeal.
First .
It seems to be thought that it is a complete defense to show that defendants did exactly what the laws of Delaware required in order to effectuate a short-form merger.
Under Delaware law the sole remedy of the dissenting minority shareholders is the Delaware appraisal proceeding.
2 But it is settled law in the Second Circuit that "Where Rule 10b-5 properly extends it will be applied regardless of any cause of action that may exist under state law."
Popkin v. Bishop , 464 F.2d 714, 718 (2d Cir. 1972).
See also Vine v. Beneficial Finance Co. , 374 F.2d 627, 635-36 (2d Cir.), cert. denied , 389 U.S. 970 , 88 S.Ct. 463 , 19 L.Ed.2d 460 (1967); Levine v. Biddle Sawyer Corp. , 383 F.Supp.
618, 622 (S.D.N.Y.1974).
So, here, the principal if not the sole question we have to decide is whether or not plaintiffs have stated a claim arising out of Rule 10b-5 .
The legal reasoning supporting this holding is, we think, that the states have no power to preempt Congress in the creation of substantive rights and remedies arising from purchases and sales of securities in interstate commerce.
Neither Delaware nor any other state may do more than create substantive remedies that are not preemptive or exclusive but must compete with other properly constituted remedies in the market place where the most effective and least costly of those procedures may be expected to prevail.
The remedies available to redress violations under the Securities Exchange Act are supplementary to those provided by the states and they may not be abrogated merely by the coincidental availability of an alternate or corollary state remedy.
Furthermore, the fact that a state has chosen to create a particular remedy for a particular injury in no way precludes the Congress from creating an additional form of relief for another injury.
Thus, the fact that a shareholder claiming fraud both in the consummation of a merger not based on any justifiable corporate purpose and in the undervaluation of his shares may under state law only resort to an appraisal proceeding that merely ameliorates the undervaluation does not foreclose the right of the Congress and the federal courts to provide that claimant an additional right and remedy to redress any injury flowing from a fraud inherent in the merger itself.
Second .
Another erroneous assumption is that in order to allege a claim under Rule 10b-5 there must be some showing of misrepresentation or lack of disclosure.
This is one of the grounds stated by Judge Brieant in the court below for his dismissal of the complaint.
391 F.Supp.
849, 854-55 .
But only subdivision (2) of 10b-5 deals with nondisclosure and misrepresentation.
The Rule contains two other subdivisions which state explicitly that fraud other than and in addition to a failure to disclose or truthfully represent is also actionable: It must be that the failure to observe this broader scope of Rule 10b-5 led the court below to dismiss the complaint, even accepting "plaintiffs' claimed valuation" and assuming the truth of the allegations of the complaint to the effect that the stock was grossly undervalued and that there was no justifiable corporate reason for the merger.
Our later review of the decisions of this Court on the subject of allegations under Rule 10b-5 of breaches of fiduciary duty by a majority against minority shareholders without any charge of misrepresentation or lack of disclosure will, we think, demonstrate that in such cases misrepresentation or lack of disclosure are not essential ingredients of the claim for relief by the minority.
But, lest there be any lingering doubt on this point, we now hold that in such cases, including the one now before us, no allegation or proof of misrepresentation or nondisclosure is necessary.
As with other laws Rule 10b-5 must be interpreted and applied so as to accomplish the purpose for which it was intended.
That this requires a generous reading is too obvious for comment.
Since the time to which the memory of man runneth not to the contrary the human animal has been full of cunning and guile.
Many of the schemes and artifices have been so sophisticated as almost to defy belief.
But the ordinary run of those willing and able to take unfair advantage of others are mere apprentices in the art when compared with the manipulations thought up by those connected in one way or another with transactions in securities.
This is especially true of schemes that seem to be absolutely safe but offer rich rewards.
In these days when there are takeovers and tender offers galore, times when those who used to think of going public now think of becoming private again, it is especially important to give Rule 10b-5 its full scope.
If this is to be done, the enforcement of the fiduciary duty owed by the majority to the minority in corporations large and small should not be overlooked.
At this stage of the proceedings in this case we need not concern ourselves with the federal rules to be formulated relative to the ascertainment of the true value of the shares now held by the minority nor the specific remedy to be applied should the plaintiffs prevail.
We also recognize that we are only dealing now with the allegations of the complaint, which we must assume to be true.
The defendants may prove that there has been no breach of fiduciary duty by the majority.
More of this later.
Without further discussion we think it is clear that the case relates to the purchase and sale of securities in interstate commerce, 3 that the plaintiffs are indeed forced sellers, 4 and that there is a causal relation between the alleged breach of fiduciary duty by the majority and the injury suffered by the complaining owners of the minority stock interest.
II Prior to July 31, 1974, plaintiffs were minority shareholders of Kirby Lumber Co., a Delaware corporation.
For some years prior to the merger transactions involved here, approximately 95% of the capital stock of Kirby was owned by defendant Santa Fe Natural Resources ("Resources") which in turn is a wholly-owned subsidiary of defendant Santa Fe Industries, Inc. ("Santa Fe").
In July, 1974, Resources embarked upon a plan to effect a short-form merger pursuant to Section 253 of the Delaware Corporation Law, which permits a parent corporation owning at least 90% of the capital stock of a subsidiary to merge the parent and the subsidiary, upon approval by the parent's Board of Directors and shareholders.
Accordingly, a fourth corporation, Forest Products, Inc. ("Forest Products"), was organized in July as a Delaware corporation.
Resources transferred approximately 95% of the capital stock to Forest Products, together with cash and the assumption of certain liabilities, in exchange for all of Forest Products's capital stock.
Shortly thereafter, the board of Forest Products adopted a Section 253 merger resolution providing that Forest Products would be merged into Kirby, with Kirby as the surviving corporation.
Since such a merger resolution may provide that all shares held by minority shareholders will be purchased for cash, and consent of the minority shareholders is not required, the resolution stipulated that the minority shareholders of Kirby would have the right to receive $150 per share or to seek appraisal for their stock, as permitted by the Delaware statute.
The merger became effective on July 31, 1974.
In accord with Delaware Corporation Law Section 253(b) , "new" Kirby notified the shareholders of "old" Kirby of the merger and of their rights, and sent a detailed financial Information Statement regarding Kirby.
None of the plaintiffs tendered any of the stock of Kirby.
Instead, on August 21, 1974, they made a demand for appraisal of their Kirby stock.
On September 9 of that same year, however, they purported to withdraw that demand, and on September 10, they commenced this lawsuit.
The gravamen of their complaint, in which the prayer for relief is that the merger be rescinded, that plaintiffs be awarded money damages or such other and further relief as may be just, is that the short-form merger resulted in the acquisition of the minority shares at a "grossly undervalued price."
That undervaluation, they claim, combined with the corporation's failure to disclose the merger to plaintiffs until after its completion, and the fact that, as they say, the merger was effected without any business purpose, constituted a manipulative and deceptive device in breach of Rule 10b-5 and a common law breach of the fiduciary duty owed to Kirby and its minority shareholders.
Since an opinion from Appraisal Associates, contained in the Information Statement sent to Plaintiffs, valued Kirby's land and timber at $320 million, plaintiffs contend that the appraisal of the minority shares should have been at least equal to $772 per share.
The statement to the minority shareholders presented the alternative of cash amounting to $150 per share or a valuation by the courts if requested.
The $150 per share was based upon the opinion of Morgan Stanley & Co. which concluded: This opinion was expressed in a letter of June 24, 1974, which in turn was based upon a detailed study of the business affairs of Kirby Lumber Corporation, including a review of financial statements and appraisals of the Company's properties as set forth in elaborate schedules attached to the Information Statement.
All plaintiffs' claims with respect to the alleged "fraudulent" and "unconscionable" undervaluation of the stock are based upon what was thus disclosed to the shareholders prior to the merger in the Information Statement.
III The Law A The Delaware Corporation Laws Many years ago the State of Delaware through its legislature established a series of corporation laws thought to be favorable to corporate management and designed to attract corporations to the state for the purpose, among others, of raising revenue for the state and furnishing business for the members of the legal profession located in Delaware.
Many of these laws were copied in other states for similar purposes.
Without making a long story of it, some of these laws were intended to facilitate the squeezing out of minority shareholders.
Of these laws, the one with which we are principally concerned here made elaborate provisions for a short-form merger under Section 253 of the Delaware Corporation Law.
The salient feature of this short-form merger was that a majority of 90% of the shareholders could eliminate the 10% minority without any vote of the shareholders, without prior notice to the minority shareholders, without any statement of corporate purpose and by fixing an amount to be paid per share to the minority shareholders, who were given the option of selling their shares at the stipulated price or demanding an appraisal under the auspices of the Delaware Court of Chancery, pursuant to the terms of Section 262 of the Delaware Corporation Law.
We are told that the avowed purpose of these laws was to wipe out the minority.
5 The Delaware courts have held that the sole remedy of the minority shareholders is to demand the appraisal and be paid the amount per share fixed by the appraisal.
6 No opportunity is afforded the minority shareholder in advance of the date when the merger becomes effective to apply to any court for injunctive relief to stop the merger, nor is there any provision for rescission or other relief.
The Delaware laws also permit a long-form merger in cases where the majority have control but not 90% of the stock.
In such cases prior notice is required and an opportunity is afforded to apply to a court for injunctive relief.
In this class of mergers a vote of the shareholders is necessary.
In the case of a short-form merger, if the majority decides to fix the price to be paid to the minority shareholders at a figure substantially less than the shares are worth and the merger becomes effective and the minority shareholders turn in their stock and receive from the corporation the amount stipulated to be paid, all in the absence of any stated corporate purpose, the corporation pays for the stock bought from the minority shareholders, the minority shareholders are squeezed out and the entire benefit of the transaction inures to the majority shareholders.
The corporation receives no advantage, and may in fact suffer detriment, and by the elimination of the shares of stock of the minority the majority's shares become more valuable.
Plaintiffs claim this is just such a case. B Where a Breach of Fiduciary Duty by Majority Shareholders with Resulting Detriment to the Minority Is Alleged as in this Case, No Claim of Misrepresentation or Lack of Disclosure Is Required to Make Out a Case Under Rule 10b-5 The main thrust of the decision below is that to state a preliminary case under rule 10b-5 there must be misrepresentation or lack of disclosure even in the presence of a breach of fiduciary duty.
We disagree.
While the "fraud" at which 10b-5 is aimed obviously includes the classic examples of misrepresentation and nondisclosure inveighed against in Ruckle v. Roto American Corp. , 339 F.2d 24 (2d Cir. 1964) and Affiliated Ute Citizens v. United States , 406 U.S. 128 , 92 S.Ct. 1456 , 31 L.Ed.2d 741 (1972), it is by no means limited to that type of illegality.
As the Court stated in S. E. C. v. Capital Gains Research Bureau, Inc. , 375 U.S. 180, 194 , 84 S.Ct. 275, 284 , 11 L.Ed.2d 237, 247 (1963), quoting from Moore v. Crawford , 130 U.S. 122, 128 , 9 S.Ct. 447, 448 , 32 L.Ed. 878, 880 (1888): The Court has previously made clear that Section 10(b) was not intended to be a panacea for all corporate ills and management wrongdoing, Superintendent of Ins. v. Bankers Life and Casualty Co. , 404 U.S. 6, 11-12 , 92 S.Ct. 165, 168 , 30 L.Ed.2d 128, 133-134 (1971).
But it has also directed that " [s]ection 10(b) must be read flexibly, not technically and restrictively."
Id. , at 12 , 92 S.Ct. at 169 , 30 L.Ed.2d at 134 .
See also A. T. Brod & Co. v. Perlow , 375 F.2d 393, 396-7 (2d Cir. 1967).
We have followed that mandate.
In Schoenbaum v. Firstbrook , 405 F.2d 215 (2d Cir. 1968) ( en banc ), cert. denied sub nom.
, Manley v. Schoenbaum , 395 U.S. 906 , 89 S.Ct. 1747 , 23 L.Ed.2d 219 (1969), we focused on the question whether improper self-dealing and breach of fiduciary duty by the majority, without more, constituted a violation of 10b-5 .
Answering that question in the affirmative, Judge Hays, writing for the majority, emphasized subdivision (3) of 10b-5 and held that a preliminary cause of action under that Rule had been stated.
Breach of fiduciary duty and fraud on the cestuis and the corporation had been committed, on the facts as alleged, when Banff sold its shares to Aquitaine at an inordinately low price after the directors had learned of the important oil discovery and before that information had been made public, even though there had been neither misrepresentation nor failure to make any required disclosure to the minority.
The decision echoes the well-established principles enunciated in Pepper v. Litton , 308 U.S. 295, 306-7 , 60 S.Ct. 238, 245 , 84 L.Ed. 281, 288-9 (1939), that directors and controlling shareholders are fiduciaries.
Id. , at 306 , 60 S.Ct. at 245 , 84 L.Ed. at 289 .
When controlling shareholders of a publicly held corporation use corporate funds to force extinction of the minority shareholders' interest for the sole purpose of feeding the pocketbooks of the controlling shareholders, such conduct goes beyond mere negligent mismanagement and is properly cognizable as "an act, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud *."
The majority has abused its equitable powers by exercising them for the "aggrandizement, preference, or advantage of the fiduciary to the exclusion or detriment of the cestuis ."
Pepper v. Litton , supra , at 311 , 60 S.Ct. at 247 , 84 L.Ed. at 292 .
See also Drachman v. Harvey , 453 F.2d 722, 736 (2d Cir. 1972) ( en banc ).
Our finding of fraud inherent in the freezing out of a splinter interest in the context of a "going private" transaction that lacks corporate purpose is not without scholarly or judicial support.
See, e. g. , Bryan v. Brock & Blevins Co., Inc. , 490 F.2d 563 (5th Cir.), cert. denied , 419 U.S. 844 , 95 S.Ct. 77 , 42 L.Ed.2d 72 (1974); Voege v. American Sumatra Tobacco Corp. , 241 F.Supp.
369, 375 (D.Del.1965) ("Plaintiff at bar was the subject of deception for when she acquired her stock she did so upon the justifiable assumption that any merger would deal with her fairly, only later to find, according to the complaint, that the terms of the merger were designed to defraud her.
"); Borden, Going Private--Old Tort, New Tort, or No Tort?
49 N.Y.U.L.Rev.
987 (1974); Note , Going Private , 84 Yale L.J. 903 (1975); Vorenberg, Exclusiveness of the Dissenting Stockholder's Appraisal Right , 77 Harv.L.Rev.
1189 (1964).
Most recently in Marshel v. AFW Fabric Corp. , 533 F.2d 1277 (2d Cir. 1976), we were faced with the question whether a merger lacking any justifiable corporate purpose and effected under the New York long-form merger statute might be challenged by minority shareholders under Rule 10b-5 .
Notwithstanding the absence of any allegation of misrepresentation or non-disclosure, we granted the shareholders' motion for a preliminary injunction against the proposed merger and held that a cause of action under Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 is stated "when controlling stockholders and directors of a publicly-held corporation cause it to expend corporate funds to force elimination of minority stockholders' equity participation for reasons not benefiting the corporation but rather serving only the interests of the controlling stockholders *."
Like the Delaware provisions, the New York merger statutes provide an appraisal remedy for the complaining minority shareholders.
In addition, however, since prior shareholder approval is required in the instance of the long-form merger, the shareholders in Marshel were also afforded the opportunity to seek pre-merger injunctive relief.
We regard the unavailability of this additional remedy in the case before us as further justification for the intervention of the federal courts to remedy any fraudulent conduct.
We hold that a complaint alleges a claim under Rule 10b-5 when it charges, in connection with a Delaware short-form merger, that the majority has committed a breach of its fiduciary duty to deal fairly with minority shareholders by effecting the merger without any justifiable business purpose.
The minority shareholders are given no prior notice of the merger, thus having no opportunity to apply for injunctive relief, and the proposed price to be paid is substantially lower than the appraised value reflected in the Information Statement.
We do not hold that the charge of excessively low valuation by itself satisfies the requirements of Rule 10b-5 because that is not the case before us.
C Popkin v. Bishop , 464 F.2d 714 (2d Cir. 1972) Is Distinguishable and the Ruling in that Case Impliedly Supports Our Decision in this Case Curiously enough both sides in the case before us rely upon Popkin as controlling.
That was a long-form merger case under the New York counterpart of the Delaware long-form merger law.
There was no basis for a short-form merger as the majority control was 51.7%, far less than the 90% required for a short-form merger.
Accordingly, prior shareholder approval of the merger was required and the minority interest was given an opportunity, prior to the consummation of the merger, to sue for injunctive relief to stop the merger.
There was no showing of misrepresentation or lack of disclosure and, accordingly, the complaint was dismissed.
The principal feature of Popkin that distinguishes it from the case before us is that in Popkin there was a corporate business purpose so strong as to be as a practical matter compelling.
This purpose arose from a stipulation made in a prior New York state suit one of the principal terms of which was that the merger be consummated, evidently for the purpose of avoiding the possibility of future management misconduct.
( 464 F.2d at 716 ).
Thus the court held that plaintiffs in Popkin had no Rule 10b-5 claim.
The reasoning of Popkin also supports the conclusion we reach here to the effect that the allegation of breach of fiduciary duty owing by the majority to the minority states a 10b-5 violation without a showing of misrepresentation or lack of disclosure.
Popkin holds that the primary reason misrepresentation or lack of disclosure was required was that shareholder approval was necessary.
"In the context of such transactions [ i. e. , those for which shareholder approval is required], if federal law insures that shareholder approval is fairly sought and fully given, the principal federal interest is at an end."
464 F.2d at 720 [material supplied].
The plain implication is that in cases such as the short-form merger, where no shareholder approval is required, there is no need for a showing of misrepresentation or lack of disclosure to make out a 10b-5 case. As the Popkin court stated, 464 F.2d at 719 .
Whether full disclosure has been made is not the crucial inquiry since it is the merger and the undervaluation which constitute the fraud, and not whether or not the majority determines to lay bare their real motives.
If there is no valid corporate purpose for the merger, then even the most brazen disclosure of that fact to the minority shareholders in no way mitigates the fraudulent conduct.
This is the substance of plaintiffs' reliance on Popkin here, and we agree.
It may well be that, in view of the fact that the majority's 51.7% control made it inevitable that minority opposition would be futile, any requirement of misrepresentation or lack of disclosure was illusory.
Whether or not this criticism of Popkin is justified is, we think, for another day.
IV The Allegations of the Amended Complaint Fail to State a Claim Under Rule 10b-5 Against Morgan Stanley & Co. 7 As we have already said, we do not now hold that an allegation of substantial undervaluation, standing alone, makes out a Rule 10b-5 case in a Delaware short-form merger setting.
We deal here with the additional elements of lack of a justifiable corporate purpose for the merger and the fact that the Delaware law provides for no prior notice to the minority shareholders thus depriving them of the opportunity to apply for injunctive relief, as well as the allegations of undervaluation.
Morgan Stanley & Co.'s involvement in the merger was strictly limited to the valuation of stock and to the compilation of a report detailing the company's financial status.
There is no allegation that Morgan Stanley & Co. engaged in any misrepresentation or nondisclosure such as would support its liability under Rule 10b-5(2) .
We find no intimation in the amended complaint or in any of the briefs that Morgan Stanley & Co. had anything whatever to do with the planning of the merger or that it had any knowledge as to whether or not there existed a justifiable corporate purpose for the merger.
And, of course, Morgan Stanley & Co. cannot be, and has not been, charged with any responsibility for effectuating the procedural steps incidental to the merger or for implementing the Delaware law and its provision for shareholder notice only after the merger has become effective.
Most importantly, Morgan Stanley & Co. has not been charged with participation in the majority shareholders' breach of fiduciary duty, a key element of the latter's 10b-5 liability.
Even with respect to the alleged undervaluation of the stock we think the conclusory allegations that Morgan Stanley & Co. acted wilfully, as an accessory and as an aider and abettor in setting the value of the Kirby shares are plainly insufficient.
The Information Statement itself, including the Morgan Stanley letter of June 24, 1974, and the Schedules and Exhibits attached to these documents, shows on its face that there was no wilful or other representation by Morgan Stanley & Co. that the Kirby shares should be valued at $150.
All that Morgan Stanley & Co. did, or was asked to do, was to assemble and present for the consideration of the Kirby management and the minority shareholders the data and information, including the price at which the shares would probably be publicly or privately traded, which would enable the minority shareholders to make an intelligent decision as to whether to surrender their stock in return for $150 a share or apply to the Delaware Court of Chancery for an independent valuation of the stock.
It is not even alleged that Morgan Stanley & Co. had anything to do with the decision by the majority shareholders to fix the offering price at $150 a share, thereby adding an increment of $25 to the fair market value as appraised by Morgan Stanley & Co., perhaps in the interest of leading the minority shareholders to believe that the offer was a generous one.
Finally, it is not alleged that Morgan Stanley & Co. received any benefit or unjustly profited in any direct or indirect manner by its appraisal.
A copy of the letter of Morgan Stanley & Co. of June 24, 1974, is set forth in the margin.
8 We think the reference to "fair market value" in the first paragraph as well as the entire last paragraph of the letter is to current sales of shares of Kirby stock on some stock exchange, or otherwise, a subject in which the minority shareholders might be expected to be interested.
The record is barren of any information on the subject of public or private trading in shares of this publicly owned stock.
Nor do any dates of purchase and sale transactions appear in the record, except certain purchases by affiliates at prices ranging from $65 per share in 1968 to $90 per share in 1973 in one of the Exhibits attached to the Information Statement.
We are inclined to suspect, in the absence of any statement on this point in the complaint or in the briefs, that the reason for the estimate by Morgan Stanley & Co. was that there was no public or private market for the stock.
Thus, absent any claim that Morgan Stanley & Co. was in any way involved in planning or effectuating the merger, or that it shared in the alleged profiteering and faithless conduct of the majority shareholders, appellants' summary allegations that the Company participated in fraudulently undervaluing the minority shares fails to state a claim under Rule 10b-5 .
V Conclusion The provisions of the Delaware corporation laws relative to short-form mergers have been the subject of favorable and unfavorable comment for years.
One of the Commissioners of the SEC has made a speech on the subject.
The SEC has circulated certain proposed new rules.
9 Law professors, practicing lawyers and student editors of law reviews have had their say.
We do not think it would be profitable to comment on any of this, except to say that we have read all this material and given it the consideration we think it deserves.
We have also refrained from comment on the remedy to be applied, in the event that plaintiffs succeed at the trial, or on the thorny subject of how in such event a proper valuation of the stock is to be made.
These are questions proper for consideration at the trial level, after all the proofs are in.
In view of the conclusions at which we have arrived, we do not reach the pendent or diversity claims.
With respect to defendant Morgan Stanley & Co. the order and judgment appealed from are affirmed.
As to the other defendants the order and judgment appealed from are reversed.
