 MacKINNON , Circuit Judge: The State of Texas in this litigation contends that the Attorney General and the Director of the Census incorrectly determined that Texas became subject to the corrective provisions of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, 1 by virtue of the 1975 amendments 2 thereto, because more than five percent of the voting age citizens of Texas are [**299] members of a single (foreign) language minority and because Texas printed at least some of its election materials only in English as of November 1, 1972.
The judgment of the district court agreed generally with the position of the federal government, and we affirm that decision.
The Voting Rights Act of 1965 provides, inter alia , that "no citizen shall be denied the right to vote in any Federal, State, or local election because of his failure to comply with any test or device" with respect to which certain determinations specified in section 4(b) have been made by the Attorney General and the Director of the Census.
3 In its 1975 Amendments to the Act, Congress expanded the original definition of "test or device" to include elections conducted only in English where a substantial fraction of the population of a particular jurisdiction speaks a foreign language.
4 The sanctions of the Act are triggered by the determinations referred to above.
Specifically, after the adoption of the 1975 Amendments, section 4(b) of the amended Act requires the Director of the Census to make two determinations on or after August 6, 1975.
First, he must determine whether "more than five per centum of the citizens of voting age residing in [a] State or political subdivision are members of a single language minority."
5 Second, the Director must determine with respect to each jurisdiction whether 6 The Attorney General must then separately determine whether the particular state or political subdivision in question maintained a "test or device" on November 1, 1972.
7 In the event that both officials make affirmative determinations in the areas assigned to them by the statutory provisions mentioned above (also referred to as the "trigger" provisions), the particular state or subdivision becomes subject to corrective provisions of the amended Acts 8 until such time [**300] as that jurisdiction, in a suit before a three judge court in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, proves that it has not used a "test or device" with a discriminatory effect or purpose in ten years preceding the filing of the suit.
9 As early as July 14, 1975 (three weeks before the effective date of the 1975 amendments), appellant White, who is Secretary of State for Texas and the state's chief election official, requested the Director of the Census and the Attorney General to grant the state a formal hearing prior to making the determinations regarding Texas required by the amended Act.
It was suggested that White could present evidence which was allegedly relevant to the question of whether Texas is covered by the new law.
Although the statute itself makes no provision for a hearing, the Bureau of the Census did agree to provide Texas with an opportunity to present any data and supporting documentation relevant to the census determinations, and agreed to receive and consider such data fully and fairly.
10 A meeting was scheduled for September 5, 1975.
11 On September 4, the day before the meeting, the Bureau of the Census issued a press release 12 which stated that the Director had determined that the State of Texas met two of the "trigger" requirements: 1) that greater than five percent of the citizens of voting age were persons of Spanish heritage and 2) that there was less than a 50 percent voter participation in Texas in the presidential election of November, 1972.
The meeting was held the next day as scheduled, and although the state officials were informed that the Bureau would evaluate any evidence presented by Texas and would reconsider their determination as to the trigger requirements of the Act if that evidence showed they had erred, 13 no facts were presented which the Bureau considered required a change in this initial determination.
14 On September 8, 1975, appellants filed suit in district court for a declaratory judgment on how and under what circumstances the determinations called for by section 4(b) of the amended Voting Rights Act should be made.
15 They also sought an injunction against the defendants restraining them from publishing any determination concerning the state of Texas in the Federal Register pursuant to the amended Act.
On September 12, the court granted the federal parties' motion for summary judgment, 16 denied the Texas parties' motion for preliminary [**301] relief, and dismissed the case. 17 This appeal followed.
18 I. We first consider the jurisdiction of the district court to review the determinations of the Director of the Census, because our jurisdiction and the extent of our reviewing authority necessarily depend upon the original jurisdiction which may or may not exist in the District Court.
While the decision of the trial judge on this point has not been challenged on appeal, 19 the scope of the lower court's subject matter jurisdiction is important to a proper resolution of this case.
Section 4(b) of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 20 provides: That provision was held constitutional in South Carolina v. Katzenbach , 383 U.S. 301 , 86 S.Ct. 803 , 15 L.Ed.2d 769 (1966) which stated: United States v. California Eastern Line 348 U.S. 351 75 S.Ct. 419 99 L.Ed. 383 Switchmen's Union v. National Mediation Bd. 320 U.S. 297 64 S.Ct. 95 88 L.Ed. 61 findings 4(b) Id .
383 U.S. at 333 , 86 S.Ct. at 821 , 15 L.Ed.2d at 789 .
(emphasis added).
The Court construed this provision in a manner consistent with the interpretation given to the Act as a whole: an "inventive" solution to "nearly a century of systematic resistance to the Fifteenth Amendment" which would "shift the advantage of time and inertia from the perpetrators of the evil to its victims."
Id .
, 383 U.S. at 328 , 86 S.Ct. at 818 , 15 L.Ed.2d at 786 .
Thus, "the measure prescribes remedies for voting discrimination which go into effect without any need for prior adjudication."
Id. at 327-28 , 86 S.Ct. at 818 , 15 L.Ed.2d at 786 .
The trial court in the instant case held that this provision did not divest it of "narrow" jurisdiction to determine whether the Director of the Census followed Congressional intent and direction.
21 The district [**302] judge stated the following standard for review: (App. 222-23).
(App. 225).
We agree that this was the proper standard of review for the court to apply.
In Leedom v. Kyne , 358 U.S. 184 , 79 S.Ct. 180 , 3 L.Ed.2d 210 (1958), the Supreme Court ruled that a federal district court had jurisdiction to hear a challenge to a certification of a collective bargaining unit by the National Labor Relations Board despite a provision in the National Labor Relations Act which precludes direct review of such certifications.
22 In Leedom , the Board had, without a vote among the professional employees, included both professional and nonprofessional employees in the same bargaining unit in clear violation of section 9(b)(1) of the National Labor Relations Act, which provided that "the Board shall not (1) decide that any unit is appropriate .
.
.
if such unit includes both professional employees and employees who are not professional employees unless a majority of such professional employees vote for inclusion in such unit."
23 The Court allowed direct review of this determination on the ground that: 358 U.S. at 188 , 79 S.Ct. at 184 , 3 L.Ed.2d at 214 .
Similarly, in International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers v. National Mediation Board , 138 U.S.App.D.C.
96 , 425 F.2d 527 (1970), we allowed a limited review of a decision of the National Mediation Board not to discontinue mediation and proffer arbitration under the Railway Labor Act, notwithstanding a clear legislative intent to preclude judicial review of Mediation Board actions, stating that: [**303] Id. at 105 , 425 F.2d at 536 .
See also Thermtron Products, Inc. v. Hermansdorfer , 423 U.S. 336, 351 , 96 S.Ct. 584, 593 , 46 L.Ed. 542, 554 (1976); Municipal Light Boards of Reading & Wakefield Massachusetts v. FPC , 146 U.S.App.D.C.
294 , 450 F.2d 1341 (1971), cert. denied , 405 U.S. 989 , 92 S.Ct. 1251 , 31 L.Ed.2d 445 (1972).
24 It is therefore apparent that even where the intent of Congress was to preclude judicial review, a limited jurisdiction exists in the court to review actions which on their face are plainly in excess of statutory authority.
That such a limited review is permissible in this case is also evident from the opinion of the Supreme Court in South Carolina v. Katzenbach , supra , where the Court construed the statutory provision which is in question here to prohibit review of " findings "--that is, the "objective statistical determinations by the Census Bureau and .
.
.
routine analysis of state statutes by the Justice Department."
25 The district court in the instant case was careful to note that the actual computations made by the Director of the Census were not within its jurisdiction to review, and that its scope of review was limited to determining whether the Director acted "consistent with the apparent meaning of the statute."
26 Narrowly defined in this manner, the jurisdiction of the trial court to consider the Director's determinations is supported by precedent, and we therefore affirm the authority of the district court to review in the present case. II.
On this appeal appellants first contend that the Director of the Census and the Attorney General erred in failing to grant Texas "some sort of a hearing" before determining that it was covered by the Act.
Although they apparently concede that they are not entitled to a formal hearing under the Voting Rights Act 27 and do not challenge the holding of the district court that "[t]he Administrative Procedure Act in no way affords a hearing under these circumstances," 28 they do argue that Younger v. Harris 401 U.S. 37 91 S.Ct. 746 27 L.Ed.2d 669 (Appellants' Brief at 12).
To the extent that this argument is supposed to be a constitutional challenge to the Voting [**304] Rights Act, we have no jurisdiction to consider it because appellants did not apply for a three judge court upon filing their action.
29 If, on the other hand, it is directed to our interpretation of that statute, it is not persuasive.
In Younger , supra , the Supreme Court sustained the district court's refusal to enjoin a state criminal prosecution under California's Criminal Syndicalism Act, based in part upon 30 In Younger the Court was dealing with a requested judicial action, and thus was saying that in carrying out their federal responsibilities courts should be sensitive to state interests.
By contrast, the federal action involved in the instant case was legislative , and although the same advice might well be given to the Congress, Younger does not place in the hands of this court responsibility for the balancing which determines to what extent a federal statute should intrude upon state interests.
That task primarily belongs to Congress, and the resolution of the matter which Congress makes should not be disturbed by a court unless it violates the Constitution.
In the case before us there is little direct evidence that Congress did consider requiring a hearing prior to the making of the required determinations 31 ; but even if [**305] they did not study and reject the idea, the purpose of the Act is so inconsistent with any notice-and-comment requirement as to compel the conclusion that a predetermination hearing cannot be implied from the terms of the statute.
The basic thrust of the Voting Rights Act is to avoid delay of any kind in the enforcement of voting rights 32 ; the determinations under section 4(b) "consist of objective statistical determinations by the Census Bureau and a routine analysis of state statutes by the Justice Department."
33 It would be incongruous if we were to conclude that a procedure involving a great administrative burden and delay could be implied from a statute designed to eliminate these obstructions.
Nor is it logical to think that Congress would intend to impose such a procedural encumbrance upon what are essentially mechanical determinations.
This is not to say, of course, that the Attorney General and the Director of the Census could not voluntarily grant a hearing to any affected state where they felt this could be done without defeating the purpose of the statute.
Indeed, a hearing was held here.
It is of course unfortunate that Texas could not be given this hearing prior to publication of the Director's determinations; but we cannot second-guess his judgment that, with national elections a year away, those determinations had to be made public at the earliest possible date.
We note that the Bureau indicated it would reconsider its findings if the state officials presented information demonstrating that the Bureau had erred 34 ; and that at the time of the September 5 meeting, the Attorney General had not yet made his determination as to whether Texas employed a "test or device" in 1972.
35 Under these circumstances we believe that the State of Texas was afforded a participation in the decision-making process under the Voting Rights Act greater than the statute requires.
[**306] III.
Appellants raise two challenges to the determinations made by the Director of the Census.
36 First, they claim that the Director used inaccurate data in computing the number of citizens of voting age because he failed to exclude a sufficient number of aliens from his computations.
In order to make the required determination, the Bureau projected its 1970 census figures into 1972 and found a total population of voting age in Texas on November 1, 1972 of 7,655,000, less 140,657 aliens of voting age on that same date, to indicate 7,514,343 Texas citizens of voting age.
37 The appellants' contention is that the figure of 140,657 aliens is unreasonably low, and thus that the figure used by the Director for Texas citizens of voting age was too high.
38 The main argument raised by appellants is that other statistics exist which demonstrate that the Bureau of the Census figure for aliens of voting age in Texas is patently unrealistic.
To begin with, they cite Immigration and Naturalization Service [INS] figures which show that there were 263,000 legal aliens in Texas in 1972.
39 There is no indication of how many of these were of voting age.
As for illegal aliens, numerous conflicting sources are quoted to show that a great number of them lived in Texas in 1972, far more than 140,657.
INS figures are said to demonstrate that 209,912 illegal aliens were deported from Texas in 1972, 40 but that statistic is subject to at least three criticisms: again, there is no indication of how many of these were of voting age; nor is there any correction made for individuals who might have been deported two or more times; nor does this tell us how many were residing in the state on November 1, 1972.
The Commissioner of the INS is quoted as saying that the number of illegal aliens in the state was four to five times the number being deported.
41 Besides the three criticisms made above which are also applicable to this statistic, its vagueness makes it unsuited [**307] suited for the type of numerical calculation required of the Bureau of the Census here.
Next, a recent study made under contract for the Immigration and Naturalization Service is said to indicate that 2,693,600 illegal Mexican nationals went undetected in the United States in the year 1972.
42 Again, there is no indication of how many of these were of voting age; no specification of how many resided in Texas; no means of ascertaining how many were there on November 1, 1972; and no consideration of how many non -Mexican aliens might have been in Texas illegally at that time.
Moreover, it is to be noted that these are estimates , 43 whereas the census figures which they would replace are projections from an actual count.
44 Presumably the aliens who are not counted by the census would not be included in the total Texas population figures, either; but if statistics from two or more sources are used, aliens absent from one figure might be included in another, thus magnifying the inaccuracies.
Finally, appellants intermix "cautious estimates" from all these sources to arrive at a "more-than-reasonable" figure for the total number of aliens in Texas [with no regard, apparently, to their age].
45 The efforts by appellants to correct the source figures to meet some of the criticisms made above- e. g. , that certain statistics do not take into account the possibility that some aliens might have been deported more than once--only compound the uncertainties in the final figure.
What we have intended to demonstrate by this discussion is not that appellants have failed to cast some doubt upon the reliability (in an absolute sense) of the figures used by the Director of the Census; rather, our point is that however weak the census figures are thought to be, the appellants have been able to offer none better.
Their figures are necessarily amalgams of estimates and hypotheses because there are no statistics available which provide what are assuredly completely accurate answers to the questions raised by section 4(b) of the Voting Rights Act.
That being so, it is clearly the prerogative of Congress to specify one particular source for all the figures to be used, to insure quick availability and consistency.
46 [**308] Having determined that the Bureau of the Census properly looked only to its own statistics for the data needed by the Director to make his determinations, we can go no farther.
Under the standard of review which we have previously approved, 47 the court has narrow jurisdiction to consider the correctness of the Director's interpretation of the statute, but not to review his computations.
We find that the trial court correctly held "that there has been proper consideration given to the status of aliens in making the computations and that the Director is reasonable in relying on data derived from answers to Census questionnaires."
48 It was right for the district court to consider the sources of the Director's data to the extent that this was necessary to ascertain whether he accurately interpreted his duty under the statute, but no further.
Once the district court had concluded that the Director had correctly read the statute to allow him, in his discretion, to rely only on census data, it had exhausted its jurisdiction to review the Director's determinations and properly refused to consider the computations themselves.
We, likewise, are without authority to consider the substance of those findings.
The second challenge made to the Director's determinations also falls within our narrow subject matter jurisdiction: appellants contend that the Director did not correctly apply that portion of section 4(b) which requires him to determine or such persons 49 The Director's interpretation of that passage, which was approved by the lower court, is that "such persons" means "voting age citizens."
Thus, in order for the Act to apply, the Director would have to determine either that (1) less than 50 percent of [**309] the voting age citizens were registered, or (2) that less than 50 percent of the voting age citizens voted.
Appellants contend that such an interpretation would make the first clause superfluous, since the percentage of people voting could never be greater than the percentage of people registered, absent illegal voting, by unregistered voters.
50 The correct construction, they argue, is to define "such persons" as meaning "registered voters," thereby requiring the Director to find that either (1) less than 50 percent of the voting age citizens were registered, or (2) that less than' 50 percent of those registered had voted, in order for the Act to apply.
51 At the outset, appellants would seem to have the better argument.
It is a rule of statutory construction that legislative enactments be so construed as to give effect to all parts.
52 However, it is also true that a construction of a statute that creates a result contrary to the apparent intent of the legislature should not prevail.
53 In this regard it is noteworthy that if appellants' construction had been used when the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was first applied, many states that the Act was admittedly aimed at would not have been covered.
54 A close look at the legislative history of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, from which the trigger clause was [**310] carried over without substantial change, 55 indicates that the Director's interpretation of this clause is indeed the correct one.
The Voting Rights Act of 1965 was conceived of by the Johnson Administration after other efforts to eliminate discrimination in voter registration had proved unsuccessful.
56 As introduced, the Administration's draft bill contained a trigger clause very similar to one which appears in the final 1965 Act and in the 1975 Amendments: 57 [**311] During the Senate hearing on this bill, Senator Edward M. Kennedy questioned Attorney General, Katzenbach, representing the Administration, about the meaning of "such persons": section 3(a)(2) 58 This interpretation was confirmed several days thereafter, in a colloquy between Senator Ervin and A. Ross Eckler, Acting Director of the Census, about Eckler's interpretation of the trigger clause: [**312] 59 At this point, Senator Ervin raised the very argument upon which appellants primarily rely: 60 Several minutes later, Senator Kennedy offered a rationale for including both tests: section 3(a) section 2 [**313] 61 Although there is no indication that Sen.
Kennedy's rationale was adopted by the committee, both determinations were still required by section 4(b) of the bill as it was reported out of committee.
62 Appendix L of the Senate Report contains tables which clearly demonstrate that the number of persons voting is to be compared to the total voting age population, and not to the number of registered voters.
63 During the ensuing floor debate on S.1564, the trigger clause was given the same interpretation as it had been given in committee: see supra 64 Although the meaning of this clause was specifically discussed at no other point during either the House or Senate debates on the 1965 Act, many senators and congressmen indicated by their references to the trigger section that they interpreted it to mean that the Director was required to determine that less than 50 percent of the persons of voting age had registered or voted.
65 An amendment that would have [**314] eliminated that language in the clause which requires the Director to determine that 50 percent of "such persons" had voted (thereby leaving only the determination that 50 percent of the voting age population was registered) was rejected without discussion about the construction of the entire trigger clause.
66 Consistent with this expressed legislative intent, both the United States Commission on Civil Rights 67 and the United States Supreme Court 68 have adopted an interpretation of the trigger clause which requires the Director of the Census to determine whether registration and voter turnout in the 1964 Presidential election was less than 50 percent of the voting age population .
The legislative history of the 1975 Amendments, though containing few references to the meaning of the trigger clause, also appears to support the forgoing construction.
69 It is therefore clear that the interpretation given to the trigger clause by the Director of the Census is the correct one, although it is not the one that would appear at first blush from a normal reading of the language.
It is, however, the construction that is clearly required by the unquestioned interpretation given the clause during its passage through the legislative process.
We thus reject the second challenge to the Director's determinations also.
IV.
Finally, appellants challenge the determination by the Attorney General under section 4(b) that Texas maintained a "test or device"- i. e. , English-only elections--on November 1, 1972.
Their argument on this point asserts that section 4(d) of the amended Act modifies section 4(b) .
Section 4(d) provides: [**315] for the purpose or with the effect of denying or abridging the right to vote 42 U.S.C.A. 1973b(d) (1976 Supp.) (emphasis added).
The Texas claim that its election practices are not covered by the amended Act is based upon the fact that its state legislature enacted a bilingual election law which became effective on May 16, 1975, 70 and which has corrected the effect of English-only elections and allows a finding under section 4(d) that there is "no reasonable probability" of such English-only elections recurring in the future.
At the time of the hearing in the trial court, the Attorney General had not yet determined under section 4(b) whether Texas "maintained on November 1, 1972, any test or device," so the trial court refused to consider this issue on the ground that it was not ripe for adjudication.
71 However, the Attorney General has subsequently made that determination, 72 and to require a new lawsuit to adjudicate its validity would work a great hardship on the parties and constitute a waste of judicial energy.
73 Because we view this issue as purely one of law, we believe that it can be decided on appeal without the benefit of any further record.
74 Appellants err in their contention that section 4(d) applies to the determinations made by the Attorney General under section 4(b) .
The plain language of section 4(d) makes it applicable to determinations as to whether a state "engaged in the use of tests or devices for the purpose or with the effect of denying or abridging the right to vote."
75 Section 4(d) goes on to state three tests which, if proved in a lawsuit, will support a finding that the state has not used tests or devices in the prohibited manner.
The above-quoted language has reference to the wording of section 4(a) , which provides that in order for a state to terminate its coverage under the Voting Rights Act, the state must bring an action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia and secure a declaration by that court "that no such test or device has been used during the ten years preceding the filing of the action for the purpose or with the effect of denying or abridging the right to vote."
76 In the entire Voting Rights Act, as amended, only section 4(a) requires a determination that a state has not used tests or devices "for the purpose or with the effect" of denying or abridging the right to vote.
Therefore, it is only in a judicial termination proceeding under that section that section 4(d) has any application or becomes relevant.
South Carolina v. Katzenbach , 383 U.S. 301, 332 , 86 S.Ct. 803, 820 , 15 L.Ed.2d 769, 789 (1966).
The same point is buttressed by H.R.Rep.No.89-439, 89th Cong., 1st Sess.
26 (1965), U.S.Code Cong. & Admin.News 1965, p. 2457 which states: to resume use of tests or devices in those situations where resumption would not be precluded because of the existence of a final judgment as described in the proviso to subsection 4(a) [**316] 4(d) (Emphasis added.)
Thus, because section 4(b) only requires the Attorney General to determine whether any test or device was being maintained on a certain date in the past, and does not provide for him to make the further determination that the test or device was used "for the purpose or with the effect of denying or abridging the right to vote," section 4(d) is by its terms inapplicable to his action under section 4(b) .
The standard which section 4(d) sets out is only compatible with the action the court is required to take in a lawsuit under section 4(a) .
If Texas believes that it is entitled to be excluded from coverage under the Voting Rights Act because of compliance with section 4(d) , it must bring the required action in the District Court for the District of Columbia, which has the exclusive power to determine compliance with that section's standard for termination.
We accordingly find appellants' argument on this point unpersuasive.
CONCLUSION In summary, insofar as we have jurisdiction to consider the matter we find that the Attorney General and the Director of the Census have acted properly in carrying out their mandate under the 1975 Amendments to the Voting Rights Act, and we affirm the district court in its grant of summary judgment to the appellees-defendants.
Judgment accordingly .
