 WYZANSKI , Senior District Judge: This case comes before us upon the petition of Southern and Western railroads, invoking our alleged jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. 2342 to review and set aside an order dated November 23, 1976, served December 9, 1976, modifying an order dated August 15, 1975, served September 12, 1975, issued by the Interstate Commerce Commission [ICC] in its Docket Ex Parte 299 (Sub.
No. 1) " Increases in Freight Rates and Charges to Offset Retirement Tax Increases--1973 ."
The ICC Report, setting forth the opinions and findings relevant to the August 15, 1975 order, has been published in 350 I.C.C.
673, 705-718 (1975).
Intervening as petitioners are Southeastern Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners and Southern Governors' Conference.
Respondents are the United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Intervening as respondent is Long Island Rail Road Company [Long Island].
Stated broadly, the dominant issue in this case is whether, under Title II--Interstate Commerce Act Amendments, Act of July 10, 1973, 83 Stat. 162 , 166-167, [which was originally codified as 49 U.S.C. 15a(4) , and is so referred to by the ICC, by the parties, and by us, but which the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976, P.L.
94-210 has re-designated as 49 U.S.C. 15a (6) ], the ICC had authority, and if so whether its report sets forth an adequate basis for exercising its authority, to require the petitioning railroads to incorporate into all tariffs naming the rates applicable to total line-haul freight charges on shipments originating or terminating on the Long Island Rail Road a 12.5 percent surcharge which accrues solely to the Long Island, and which Long Island uses to recoup its increases in Railroad Retirement taxes, imposed by Title I--Railroad Retirement Act Amendments, Act of July 10, 1973, 87 Stat. 162 .
We shall address ourselves, first, to a summary description of the 1973 statute which gave rise to the problem, then, to such facts about the Long Island as were disclosed in the administrative proceeding--and are virtually uncontested--next, to the findings and conclusions of the report adhered to by the majority of the Interstate Commerce Commissioners, and thereafter, to the contentions presented to us.
In 1973 Congress by Title I of the Act of July 10, 1973, 87 Stat. 162 increased the rate of contributions by railroads under the Railroad Retirement Act.
This affected rates payable on account of railroad employees regardless of whether they themselves were employed in interstate commerce or in purely local activities.
See 45 U.S.C. 228a(b) .
With the purpose of permitting the railroads, by pass-through procedures, to recoup the expenses thus incurred, the Congress, in Title II of the same Act of July 10, 1973, 87 Stat. 162 , 166-167, in the following words authorized interim rates, provided for in paragraph 4(b) infra , and final rate determinations by the ICC, provided for in paragraph 4(c) infra: Sec.
Section 15a 49 U.S.C. 15a section 553 section 4 The ICC in Ex Parte No. 298, Requirements and Procedures Relating to Railroad Rate Adjustment Act of 1973 (49 C.F.R. 1107 ) specified the information to be furnished by carriers utilizing the pass-through procedures.
The initial proceeding related to interim rates governed by Paragraph 4(b) above.
August 13, 1973 all railroads except the Long Island filed with the ICC a petition for permission to increase their interim freight rates by 2 percent effective October 1, 1973 and 2.7 percent effective January 1, 1974 to offset their increased retirement taxes.
Included was an increase in the "joint rates" which cover the freight carried by two or more railroads participating in a joint haul.
The proceeds of such a joint rate are divided in accordance with principles enunciated in Class Rates Investigation , 262 ICC 447 (1939), affirmed in New York v. United States , 331 U.S. 284 , 67 S.Ct. 1207 , 91 L.Ed. 1492 (1947), whereby there is a uniform rate structure in the North, the South, and the West, east of the Rocky Mountains, and the Northern and the Southern railroads receive the same share of revenue for the same amount of service.
That so-called "equal factor" basis of divisions governs unless the ICC specifically finds that a departure is justified by a difference in costs.
Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Aberdeen & Rockfish R. Co. , 393 U.S. 87 , 89 S.Ct. 280 , 21 L.Ed.2d 219 (1968).
August 24, 1973 Long Island, being opposed to increases in joint rates which would have reimbursed the Long Island for only a small fraction of its increases in retirement taxes, filed a separate petition for permission to file a tariff providing for an interim terminal surcharge of 3.5 percent effective October 1, 1973, and 5.5 percent effective January 1, 1974.
The ICC, by Report and Order dated September 13, 1973, allowed the other railroads to increase their interim rates by 1.9 percent effective October 1, 1973, and 2.6 percent effective January 1, 1974, but denied the Long Island's petition for an interim terminal surcharge.
The Long Island sought review in the Eastern District of New York.
A three-judge court held that paragraph 4(b) [ 49 U.S.C. 15a(4)(b) ], governing interim increases did not prohibit a terminal surcharge for purposes of "an interim rate increase," Long Island R. R. Co. v. United States , 388 F.Supp.
943, 946 (E.D.N.Y.,1974).
The Court observed at p. 947 that "The sole inquiry at the interim stage was to be whether the proposed increase clearly exceeded the amount needed to cover increases in costs," and then the Court noted: section 15a(4)(b) section 15a(4)(c) section 15a(4)(b) December 6, 1974 the ICC entered an order allowing, purely as an interim rate measure, Long Island to increase its terminal surcharge from 5.5 to 12.5 percent, effective December 19, 1974.
September 12, 1974 the ICC served its August 15, 1975 Report and Order addressing itself to the determination of final rates, pursuant to Paragraph 4(c) [ 49 U.S.C. 15a(4)(c) ].
With respect to railroads other than Long Island, the ICC determined to prescribe an increase of 2.8 percent in all interterritorial joint rates except those in which Long Island participated.
So far as concerned joint rates in which Long Island participated, ICC determined to permit an add-on of a 12.5 percent terminal surcharge, as sought by Long Island.
The ICC on November 23, 1976 issued, and on December 9, 1976 served, an order (1) denying petitions for reconsideration of so much of its August 15, 1975 Report and Order as approved Long Island's 12.5 percent terminal surcharge, and (2) further requiring "the railroads .
.
.
to incorporate the 12.5 percent terminal surcharge into all tariffs naming the rates from and to points on the Long Island Rail Road Company on or before September 12, 1977."
It is that November 23, 1976 order which the Southern and Western railroads have petitioned us to set aside.
That order rests for its justification upon what is called a "Second Supplemental Report and Order of the Commission," decided August 15, 1975, from which two Commissioners dissented.
The report recites the history of the Long Island's interim rates before and after Long Island R. R. v. United States , 388 F.Supp.
943 (E.D.N.Y., 1974), summarizes the arguments of the parties with respect to the final rates, gives a few facts about the Long Island's operations, its railroad retirement taxes, its revenues from the terminal surcharge, and its possible revenues from alternative sources, and distinguishes earlier rulings of the ICC which tend to challenge rather than to support Long Island's terminal surcharge.
The report seeks to differentiate this surcharge from changes in joint rates or divisions of them.
After this non-Euclidean demonstration of quod erat demonstrandum , the report concludes that the ICC approves the Long Island's terminal charge and orders it to "be incorporated by the railroads into all tariffs naming joint rates from and to points on the Long Island Rail Road Company."
Insofar as we, after repeated readings, can understand the report, this is its reasoning.
In considering the Long Island's terminal surcharge the ICC Report discusses, even if esoterically, at least five points which are related to "standards and limitations applicable to ratemaking generally under Part I" of the Interstate Commerce Act: interim Section 6 Having dealt, more or less in the way we have just set forth, with the issues before it, the ICC (in both its order dated August 15, 1975 and in its order dated November 23, 1976) directed that the railroads, including petitioners here, "incorporate the 12.5 percent terminal surcharge into all tariffs naming the rates from and to points on the Long Island Rail Road Company.
.
.
."
Petitioners launch a broad attack on the November 23, 1976 order.
Fundamentally, they challenge the proposition that Title II of the Act of July 10, 1973 authorized the Long Island to recoup through some economically practical method of increasing rates the entire amount of increased retirement taxes imposed by Title I of that Act.
Petitioners read Title II as with one hand giving to Long Island (and, of course, other railroads) the right of full recoupment, and with the other hand denying any recoupment which conflicts with "standards and limitations applicable to ratemaking generally."
It is petitioners' position first, that it is contrary to the standards and limitations applicable to ratemaking (a) to allow a permanent terminal surcharge if there is no additional terminal service and (b) to allow a permanent terminal surcharge upon freight to recoup costs nine-tenths of which are due to local commuter passenger service; and second, that even if either allowance could be appropriate, in this matter the ICC has not given a reasoned explanation for departing from prior norms, and has acted arbitrarily.
We agree with the petitioners' contention that the ICC did not give a reasoned explanation of its November 23, 1976 order, and, therefore, we find it unnecessary to address ourselves to petitioners' other contentions.
Our starting point is Paragraph 4(c) added by Title II of the Act of July 10, 1973, [originally 49 U.S.C. 15a(4) , now 49 U.S.C. 15a(6) ].
With respect to petitions of carriers for adjustments of interstate rates based upon the expenses of carriers resulting from any increases in taxes under the Railroad Retirement Tax Act, Congress directed the ICC "to make such final rate determination.
.
.
.
In making such determination, the Commission .
.
.
shall determine such final rates under the standards and limitations applicable to ratemaking generally under Part I" of the Interstate Commerce Act.
We cannot read the ICC's report as a reasoned compliance with that statutory mandate.
Indeed the ICC's counsel in arguing this case at our bar admitted that the Commission had not made findings specifically responsive to that mandate.
Illustrative of the deficiencies in the ICC report is its statement that it was a matter for "managerial discretion" for the Long Island to allocate its increased railroad retirement costs, as it saw fit, between interstate freight service rates and intrastate passenger service rates.
As the ICC itself recognized, in ordinary circumstances allocation of costs is not a matter of managerial discretion.
Under the standards and limitations applicable to ratemaking generally, each service is usually required to bear its own costs.
To justify a departure there must be a reason.
Of course, one valid reason might be a supervening statute such as the Act of July 10, 1973.
Unfortunately, the ICC's report does not in specific language explicitly interpret the Act.
We are not unmindful that implicitly the ICC report seems to adopt the following construction of the statute: to wit, that when Congress imposed a tax measured by both wages paid to employees engaged in interstate freight services and to employees engaged in intrastate passenger services, and simultaneously authorized the taxpayer to reimburse itself, Congress contemplated that the management would exercise its discretion, subject to final determinations by the ICC under the standards and limitations applicable to ratemaking generally under the Interstate Commerce Act, to allocate reimbursement in accordance with economic feasibility, and in accordance with other rational factors.
If this was indeed the inarticulate major premise of the ICC, then we note that there are missing from the report of the ICC the findings of fact which are necessary to support the ICC in making its final determination to accept an exercise of managerial discretion which provides that all the increases in railroad retirement taxes shall be borne exclusively by increases in interstate freight rates.
Thus, we do not know from the report whether the ICC found that economically it would not have been feasible to raise passenger rates to recover some or all of the increases in retirement taxes attributable to employees engaged exclusively in passenger service.
Nor does the ICC address itself to the question whether if all or part of the new taxes attributable to passenger service are not borne by the freight rates but are left to be borne by the stockholder of the Long Island, that stockholder will allow the Long Island to go out of business as a carrier or as a carrier of interstate freight in order to avoid federal Railroad Retirement Act taxes.
Because of the inherent incompleteness of the ICC's report, which precludes us from having a basis to agree or disagree with its findings, or its interpretations of the statute governing it, and because of the ICC's failure to exercise a reasoned discretion, its order of November 23, 1976 must be set aside as not in compliance either with the Act of July 10, 1973 or with fundamental principles of due process in administrative proceedings.
The Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution requires that when it issues an order, an administrative agency must make findings and state conclusions which are susceptible of understanding by a court of the United States which is called upon to review that order.
Cf. Greater Boston Television Corp. v. FCC , 143 U.S.App.D.C.
383, 392 , 444 F.2d 841, 850 (1970).
See Citizens To Preserve Overton Park, Inc. v. Volpe , 401 U.S. 402, 416 , 91 S.Ct. 814 , 28 L.Ed.2d 136 (1971).
The reviewing court must have in the record before it a reasoned analysis by the administrative agency based on its adequate findings supported by substantial evidence, and must have at least, by clear implication, the agency's construction of the statute it is applying, so that the court may be aided in its own construction of that law.
We have another ground for setting aside the December 9, 1976 order of the ICC.
The Supreme Court, affirming a three-judge court in the Eastern District of Louisiana has made it clear that a departure from the equal-factor basis of divisions of joint rates can be allowed only on the basis of specific findings.
Aberdeen & Rockfish R. Co. v. United States , 270 F.Supp.
695 (E.D.La., 1967), affirmed Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Aberdeen & Rockfish R. Co. , 393 U.S. 87 , 89 S.Ct. 280 , 21 L.Ed.2d 219 (1968).
In the case at bar such findings were not made by the ICC because it reasoned that the Long Island's terminal surcharge was an "add-on" and not a modification of the joint rates.
We reject this reasoning as being totally unrealistic.
We regard the present case as involving in economic terms a change in the joint rates and divisions thereof.
It could not be doubted that if the Long Island added a terminal surcharge avowedly to increase its profits or to cover wage increases for all its employees, and the ICC ordered the other railroads to collect from shippers such amounts as well as joint rates this would constitute an undermining of the principle of both joint rates and equal division of joint rates.
We see no difference when the add-on is to recoup tax payments.
In all such cases there must be justifying findings for disturbing the rate structure.
Of course, an adequate justification may or may not be in the recoupment purpose of the Act of July 10, 1973.
As to that point we have already observed that the ICC has not yet appropriately spoken, and so we need not express our opinion.
Inasmuch as petitioners seek to set aside the ICC's order on the ground that it disturbs the rate structure contrary to the principle of division of joint rates the petitioners are correct in maintaining that this court has jurisdiction of this case under 28 U.S.C. 2342 .
Baltimore & Ohio R. v. Aberdeen & Rockfish R. Co. , supra .
There remains the question as to how shippers should be charged during the period that this matter is still under consideration by the ICC, to which we must remand this case for further proceedings not inconsistent with our opinion.
It seems to us equitable to restore the interim rates pending a determination of the final rates, but to direct that the Long Island keep in a separate trust fund, subject to ultimate determination by the ICC, all sums hereafter received as a consequence of the 12.5 percent interim terminal surcharge.
The Interstate Commerce Commission order of November 23, 1976 is set aside.
Case remanded to the Interstate Commerce Commission for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Pending determination of final rates by the Interstate Commerce Commission in this matter, the railroads which were subject to the order here set aside are required to incorporate the 12.5 percent terminal surcharge, as an interim charge, into all tariffs naming the rates from and to points on the Long Island Rail Road Company , and the said Long Island Rail Road Company is required to keep in a separate trust fund the proceeds of the said interim 12.5 percent terminal surcharge subject to further just and equitable orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission REMANDED.
