 JOHN W. PECK , Circuit Judge.
On November 6, 1972, Petitioners James Mitchell and James Nichols, Jr., were indicted for two counts of first degree murder by the Tipton County, Tennessee grand jury.
On March 22, 1973, they were found guilty after a jury trial.
Prior to the trial, petitioners filed a pro se motion, asking the trial court to dismiss the indictment because the grand jury and the foreman of the grand jury which indicted them had been selected in a racially discriminatory manner.
A pretrial hearing was held and the trial judge, making no written or oral findings of fact or rulings of law, entered an order which stated in full: "Plea in abatement is overruled."
The ruling was upheld in the Tennessee Court of Criminal Appeals on the grounds that racial discrimination had not been proved, and certiorari to the Tennessee Supreme Court was denied.
Petitioners then turned to the federal courts for relief, filing pro se petitions for writs of habeas corpus in the United States District Court for the Western District of Tennessee.
The district judge denied an evidentiary hearing, and ruled that The district judge went on to hold, however, that a prima facie case had been made with respect to the foreman issue, and ordered the state to make further response.
The state submitted two affidavits.
The foreman of the grand jury which indicted the petitioners stated that he had not voted on the indictments, and that petitioners were indicted after the grand jury had heard only one witness.
The judge who had appointed the foreman also submitted an affidavit, stating, "We called Mr. Smith [the foreman] because he has been willing to act in the past and has experience and does a good job as such foreman."
The trial judge's affidavit continued: On the basis of these affidavits, the district court ordered the dismissal of the petitions for habeas corpus relief, stating: The petitioners have appealed that order, contending that they have made out a prima facie case of discrimination in the selection both of the grand jury and of the foreman, which the State of Tennessee has not adequately rebutted.
In the alternative, they argue that they have a right to an evidentiary hearing in the district court to further develop the facts.
I Tennessee uses the "key man" system of jury selection, relying on three jury commissioners appointed by the trial judge to select a pool of prospective grand jurors from the general population.
Tenn.
Code Ann. 22-223 .
Every two years, the commissioners meet to select names "from the tax records and permanent registration records of the county, or other available and reliable sources," 22-228 .
The number of names are determined by the judge.
The names are recorded officially in a jury list book, 22-228(a) , then written on cards, sealed in a box, and drawn at random as needed for jury service.
The same list serves as jury pool for both grand and petit juries.
The commissioners have a duty to propose a "list of names of upright and intelligent persons known for their integrity, fair character and sound judgment."
22-228 .
The basic statutory qualifications for jury service are that a juror must be at least eighteen years old, a United States citizen and a resident of the county in which he or she serves as juror.
22-201 .
In addition, persons convicted of "infamous offenses," of unsound mind, with deficient sight or hearing, or habitually drunk are disqualified.
Persons in certain exempt occupations or who would suffer hardship if they served are excused.
The foreman or forewoman of the grand jury is selected in an entirely different manner.
In essence, they are hand-picked by the trial judge from the eligible population for a two-year appointment.
40-1506 .
They are subject to the same statutory qualifications as jurors except that they must be at least twenty-five years old.
II The facts elicited at the pretrial hearing were meager, especially as to hard figures or even substantiated estimates of the racial makeup of Tipton County grand juries.
For instance, there is no indication in the record of the total number of persons in the jury pool, nor is there any indication of the racial makeup of the pool.
However, some relevant information may be gleaned from the record.
In 1972, the jury commissioners in Tipton County were three men, all white.
The November, 1972 grand jury was selected from the jury pool chosen two years earlier.
Names were selected from the local telephone directory, 1 and all three commissioners testified that they selected names only of persons they knew, either personally or by reputation, and that they were aware of their duty to select, without prejudice, black members of the community.
Very few statistics were mentioned at the hearing, although one commissioner testified that he thought the county was about 30% black.
(The 1970 Census shows that Tipton County was 32.4% black.)
2 Neither the total number of names in the jury pool, nor the number of blacks was established, though it is significant that the state could easily have done so.
This would prove beyond a doubt that there was no discrimination, if such were true, since a jury list book is a statutory requirement, and since the commissioners are acquainted with everyone on the list.
However, three prior foremen did testify in vague terms about the representation of blacks on the juries themselves.
The three of them had served off and on as grand jury foremen since the early 1950's.
None of them could recall a black foreman or forewoman.
However, each testified that blacks had served on their grand juries, remembering "several," "some," "probably three or four," "usually two or three," and one black woman on the November, 1972 grand jury that indicted the petitioners.
3 III The fundamental rules to be applied in cases charging grand jury discrimination are well established.
For almost a century it has been settled law that if a state chooses to use grand juries to return indictments, the jurors must be selected without discrimination because of race or color.
In 1879, in its landmark trilogy of cases establishing the right of blacks to serve on juries and grand juries, and the right of every accused citizen to an indictment by a grand jury selected without discrimination, the Supreme Court pointed out: Strauder v. West Virginia , 100 U.S. 303, 309 , 25 L.Ed. 664 (1879).
Substantial underrepresentation, as a result of purposeful discrimination, is as much a constitutional violation as total exclusion.
Castaneda v. Partida , 430 U.S. 482 , 97 S.Ct. 1272 , 51 L.Ed.2d 498 (1977); Turner v. Fouche , 396 U.S. 346 , 90 S.Ct. 532 , 24 L.Ed.2d 567 (1970).
There seems to be a common misconception, exemplified by the trial judge's comments at the evidentiary hearing, the district court's opinion dismissing the petition, and respondent's brief, that constitutional requirements are met if there are simply "some" blacks on grand juries.
This is probably due to frequent judicial statements that there is no requirement for any particular jury panel to contain blacks, and that the venire need not contain the names of blacks in the same proportion as they are to be found in the general population.
Both these statements are quite true; however, they are true because both may occur without discrimination against blacks.
However large a percentage of the jury pool is black, any single jury, randomly drawn, may be all white (or, for that matter, all black).
Also, neutral legitimate requirements imposed by the state on its jurors may weigh more heavily on one race than another, resulting in percentages different from those in the general population.
Whether the presence of a few blacks on grand juries over the years is evidence tending to prove or disprove racial discrimination depends on the proportions of blacks who are qualified for jury service.
The method of establishing a prima facie case of intentional discrimination is also well-established when, as here, the alleged discrimination is aimed at blacks.
If over a significant period of time there exists a substantial disparity between the proportion of blacks in the general population, and the proportion called to serve as grand jurors, 4 and the selection procedure affords an opportunity to discriminate or is not racially neutral, 5 then the defendant has made out a prima facie case, and the burden shifts to the state to rebut the case. Castaneda , supra , 430 U.S. 482 , 97 S.Ct. 1272 , 51 L.Ed.2d 498 ; Alexander v. Louisiana , 405 U.S. 625 , 92 S.Ct. 1221 , 31 L.Ed.2d 536 (1972).
Once the burden has shifted to the state, it may rebut the prima facie case in several ways.
The state may impose any reasonable qualifications it wishes on its grand jurors; for instance, it may require that they be literate, that they not be convicted felons, or that they be registered voters.
The neutral imposition of any of these requirements may possibly result in the exclusion of more members of one race than another.
"There are many possible circumstances which, if they exist here, might account lawfully for the observed disparity.
The suggestion of their possible existence is not enough, however."
Stephens v. Cox , 449 F.2d 657 (4th Cir. 1971).
The state must present some concrete evidence of the effect of its neutral requirements, not merely present to the court unfounded suppositions about the literacy, intelligence and good character of its black citizens.
6 Finally, it should be noted that self-serving protestations from the officials involved that racial considerations played no part in the selection are not enough to rebut a prima facie case. Castaneda , supra , 430 U.S. at 498 n. 19, 97 S.Ct. 1272 ; Alexander v. Louisiana , supra , 405 U.S. at 632 , 92 S.Ct. 1221 .
IV Applying these principles to the grand jury selection in this case is difficult because of the vague nature of the data available.
Accepting as true the testimony of the grand jury foremen at the pretrial hearing, over the last quarter-century there has been at least one grand jury which was less than 8 percent (one in thirteen) and one which was nearly 31 percent black (four in thirteen).
These figures do not help us, however, because there is no way to tell from the record what average percentage of all the grand juries over those years was black, the only statistic which would help to prove or disprove the existence of discrimination.
We need neither depend on questionable estimates nor remand for a time-consuming hearing, 7 however, because there is no guesswork about the figures in the second aspect of petitioners' case.
There has never been a black foreman or forewoman of a grand jury in Tipton County according to the recollections of the trial judge, three jury commissioners, and three former foremen.
The statutory qualifications are identical to those of jurors except that foremen or forewomen must be a few years older.
The position is filled by the trial judge from the general population, thus affording ample opportunity for discrimination, whether conscious or unconscious.
While discrimination must be "intended," officials who select grand jurors must be considered to have intended the natural results which flow from their conduct.
Rabinowitz v. United States , 366 F.2d 34 (5th Cir. 1966).
Thus a judge who "never really gave any thought" to appointing a black is discriminating just as surely as were the jury commissioners who never selected blacks because their names were "never discussed," Norris v. Alabama , 294 U.S. 587 , 55 S.Ct. 579 , 79 L.Ed. 1074 (1935), or because they didn't know any blacks, Turner v. Fouche , 396 U.S. 346 , 90 S.Ct. 532 , 24 L.Ed.2d 567 (1970).
Officials who select grand jurors have a duty to learn who is qualified to fill the position of grand juror, and to consider qualified individuals from all segments of society.
Failure to perform that duty, resulting in the exclusion of a qualified segment of society, is unconstitutional discrimination.
Turner , supra , 396 U.S. 346 , 90 S.Ct. 532 , 24 L.Ed.2d 567 .
Thus the petitioners clearly established a prima facie case of racial discrimination in the appointment of grand jury foremen and forewomen.
The state presented no rebuttal to this case at the hearing, but in response to the district court's request for a further answer to this prima facie case, submitted the two affidavits described above.
In dismissing the petitions, the district judge stated that the foreman was "selected for other than racial reasons, and .
.
.
did not vote at the time the indictment was rendered."
Thus we must decide whether, as the district court ruled, the state has successfully rebutted the prima facie case.
Perhaps understandably, it appears that the district court has given undue weight to the exculpatory affidavit of the trial judge.
In Alexander v. Louisiana , supra , 405 U.S. 625, 632 , 92 S.Ct. 1221 , 31 L.Ed.2d 536 , the Supreme Court pointed out that Turner v. Fouche supra 396 U.S.], at 361 90 S.Ct. 532 Jones v. Georgia 389 U.S. 24, 25 88 S.Ct. 4 19 L.Ed.2d 25 Sims v. Georgia 389 U.S. 404, 407 Hernandez v. Texas 347 U.S. 74 S.Ct. 667 98 L.Ed. 866 Hill v. Texas 316 U.S. 400, 404 62 S.Ct. 1159 86 L.Ed. 1559 An absence of blacks qualified to serve as foremen or forewomen has not been demonstrated or even suggested; thus there has been no rebuttal of petitioners' prima facie case. The fact that the foreman did not vote on petitioners' indictments also fails to support the district court's dismissal.
Consideration of this factor is closely linked to the final, implicit question in this appeal: whether proof of discrimination in the selection of a grand jury foreman mandates the same remedy as does proof of discrimination in the selection of the grand jury.
Normally, if the state fails to successfully rebut a prima facie case of discrimination, a writ of habeas corpus must issue, since the indictment and all proceedings on that indictment are void.
See Castaneda , 430 U.S. 482 , 97 S.Ct. 1272 , 51 L.Ed.2d 498 .
There is no need for the petitioner to show prejudice, and a showing of no prejudice by the state is no defense.
Hill v. Texas , 316 U.S. 400 , 62 S.Ct. 1159 , 86 L.Ed. 1559 (1942).
The question is whether the same result is required when there is discrimination shown only in the selection of the grand jury foreman.
While the parties did not brief this issue, it is necessary that we consider it since the district court apparently relied on a finding of no prejudice, pointing out that the foreman rendered no vote on the indictment.
In 1973, this Court held on facts similar to those here that no discrimination had been proved because the particular foreman in question had not been appointed in the usual fashion, but selected in an emergency from among the grand jurors.
There was no challenge to the makeup of the grand jury panel.
Thus the defendant could not rely on proof of past absence of blacks from the foreman position, along with a selection process susceptible to abuse, because the foreman in that case had not been selected in the same manner.
Hale v. Henderson , 485 F.2d 266 (6th Cir. 1973), cert. denied , 415 U.S. 930 , 94 S.Ct. 1442 , 39 L.Ed.2d 489 (1974).
Not inconsistent with that opinion, we hold today that where a prima facie case of discrimination in the selection of grand jury foremen has been established, and has not been rebutted, "the conviction cannot stand, because the Constitution prohibits the procedure by which it was obtained."
Hill v. Texas , supra , 316 U.S. at 406 , 62 S.Ct. at 1162 .
The foreman or forewoman is vitally important to the functioning of grand juries in Tennessee, being "the thirteenth member of each grand jury organized during his term of office, having equal power and authority in all matters coming before the grand jury with the other members thereof."
Tenn.Code Ann. 40-1506 .
He or she is expected to assist the district attorney in investigating crime, may administer oaths to all witnesses, conduct the questioning of witnesses, must indorse and sign all indictments, 8 and like every other chairperson is in a position to guide, whether properly or improperly, the decision-making process of the body.
Additionally, the indorsement and signature of the foreman or forewoman is indispensible to an indictment in Tennessee, and their absence voids the bill.
Bird v. State , 103 Tenn. 343 , 52 S.W. 1076 (1876).
In any case, even without these important duties and powers, the foreman or forewoman is a full member of the grand jury, and we agree with the district court in Hale v. Henderson , 336 F.Supp.
512 (W.D.Tenn.1972), that a grand jury which is only twelve-thirteenths constitutional cannot render constitutionally valid indictments.
It seems clear that the potential for prejudice, given the position of authority and influence the foreman or forewoman holds, is considerable, and in such cases where the fact of prejudice may be impossible to prove, yet its effect could be so insidious and far-reaching, the courts have refused to require proof of prejudice before granting relief.
However, it is not simply the possibility of prejudice to a criminal defendant that mandates the reversal of convictions based on unconstitutional indictments.
In fact, it is quite clear that a constitutional indictment may be returned by an all-white or an all-black grand jury, and the possibility of prejudice is no less if such a jury makeup occurred by chance rather than by design.
Even a white defendant has standing to challenge a grand jury selection process which systematically excludes blacks.
Peters v. Kiff , 407 U.S. 493 , 92 S.Ct. 2163 , 33 L.Ed.2d 83 (1972).
Many years ago it was recognized that the injury is more subtle, and runs deeper than direct racial prejudice against the defendant: Ballard v. United States , 329 U.S. 187, 195 , 67 S.Ct. 261, 265 , 91 L.Ed. 181 (1946).
In Peters v. Kiff , supra , 407 U.S. 493 , 92 S.Ct. 2163 , 33 L.Ed.2d 83 , the state opposed the issuance of the writ to a white prisoner, arguing that Id. at 498 , 92 S.Ct. at 2166 .
The Supreme Court expressly rejected this argument, holding that such discrimination by its very existence denies a defendant due process of law: The necessary remedy in such a case is also clear: Hill v. Texas , 316 U.S. 400, 406 , 62 S.Ct. 1159, 1162 , 86 L.Ed. 1559 (1942).
It is therefore ordered that the cause be remanded to the district court for entry of an order providing that petitioners' convictions be set aside, and that within sixty days the petitioners be reindicted, failing which the writ of habeas corpus shall be made absolute and petitioners released from custody.
