 McGOWAN , Circuit Judge: This is an appeal from a judgment of the District Court enjoining the enforcement at the Marine Corps Air Station in Iwakuni, Japan of certain Marine Corps and Navy regulations which require prior approval for the circulation by military personnel of, inter alia , petitions to members of Congress.
413 F.Supp.
863 (1976).
The District Court declared the regulations violative of both the first amendment and 10 U.S.C. 1034 (1970) insofar as they apply to materials distributed on-base during off-hours and away from restricted or work areas.
For the reasons appearing herein, and by reference to the statutory, as distinct from the constitutional, ground, we affirm the District Court's judgment insofar as it relates to petitions, and vacate it insofar as it extends to other materials unrelated to the petitioning process.
I The procedural posture of this appeal is complicated in two respects.
We describe them in some detail in order that the precise issue addressed and decided in this opinion may be identified and understood.
The first complication relates to the nature of the attack upon the regulations.
This challenge was certified by the District Court as a class action on behalf of all members of the Marine Corps assigned to the Iwakuni Air Station.
Each of the three [**28] named plaintiffs had sought and largely been denied approval to circulate, on and off-base, petitions and certain related materials.
Two of these plaintiffs nevertheless undertook such distribution; both were arrested and one was convicted in a court-martial.
On cross-motions for summary judgment, the District Court upheld the regulations as they pertain to off-base distribution of materials in a foreign country, and therefore denied the named plaintiffs' request for injunctive relief relating to the arrests and court-martial for unauthorized off-base distribution.
1 Appellees have not cross-appealed from this portion of the District Court's judgment; and the issue of prior approval for off-base distribution of written materials generally is therefore not before us on this appeal.
However, the District Court did grant declaratory and injunctive relief to both the named plaintiffs and the class with respect to on-base distribution.
The Court held that the challenged regulations constitute an unlawful prior restraint upon circulation of materials by service personnel away from restricted areas during off-duty hours.
Appellant armed forces officials have conceded, both in the District Court and on this appeal, that the specific requests for on-base distribution made by the named plaintiffs should not have been denied under the applicable regulations.
2 However, appellants do contest the broad holding that the system of prior restraint imposed by the regulations is itself invalid.
Thus, the question presented on this appeal is whether the challenged regulations are facially invalid insofar as they require prior approval for off-duty, on-base distribution in non-work areas.
The second complication relates to the particular type of activity upon which the [**29] regulations are alleged to be an unlawful prior restraint.
The regulations broadly apply to "originat[ing], sign[ing], distribut[ing], circulat[ing] or promulgat[ing] petitions, publications .
.
.
pamphlets, newspapers, magazines, handbills, flyers or other similar printed or written material," 3 and the District Court's order applies with equal breadth to any distribution of any material in the on-base context heretofore described.
However, we believe that this appeal can and should be resolved by reference only to that activity which is the focal point of both the regulations and the requests made by the named plaintiffs, namely, petitioning by servicemen of members of Congress.
Petitions are the first type of material mentioned in the regulations, and petitions are the only type of material to which all the activities proscribed (originating, signing, distributing, circulating and promulgating) can literally apply.
Three of the four requests for permission to distribute on-base described in the complaint directly involved petitions to members of Congress.
4 The fourth request as well appears to have borne a close and clearly derivative relationship to these frustrated petitioning efforts.
That request--to distribute a leaflet quoting the first amendment and portions of the Declaration of Independence--was made by two appellees who had each shortly before been denied permission to circulate petitions.
The "modern interpretation" of the first amendment contained in the leaflet included the statement that "the government cannot take away our right to circulate petitions," and the title of the leaflet and introductory paragraph indicate that its purpose was to declare the view that commanding officers, who had denied the requests, were not acting consistently with the principles of the first amendment and the Declaration of Independence.
See note 2 supra .
The causal connection between the initial unsuccessful attempts to circulate petitions, on the one hand, and the subsequent request to distribute the Declaration of Independence, on the other, is even more apparent when one considers that a principal grievance stated in the Declaration itself was that The Signers of the Declaration felt compelled to state their grievances to the world after those in authority rebuffed their petitions and other efforts to resolve those grievances.
Appellees in this case, blocked in their attempts to petition the Congress, sought in aid of those attempts to point out that refusal to allow such petitions appeared to violate the principles stated in the Declaration.
5 Thus we consider that the record illuminates in concrete factual terms only the question of the validity of the regulations as they pertain to activity directed towards the petitioning of Congress.
Finding, as we do, that prior restraint in such a case is at odds with the statutory command of Congress, we believe the essential grievance suffered in this case is met by limiting declaratory and injunctive relief to the petitioning context.
The availability of such relief always resides in the sound discretion of the court, 6 and we see neither the necessity nor the desirability of reaching on this record the question of the facial validity of [**30] the regulations with respect to materials other than petitions to Congress.
II The four challenged regulations, all of which have the same operative language, differ only in the scope of the geographic area to which they apply.
Thus, the regulations are in the form of a Pacific Fleet Instruction, 7 a Fleet Marine Force Pacific Order, 8 a First Marine Aircraft Wing Order, 9 and a Iwakuni Marine Corps Air Station order.
10 The operative language states that Marine Corps personnel within the relevant command area shall not 11 This requirement clearly constitutes a prior restraint upon petitions to Congress.
Indeed, the requirement of command authorization is interposed at every stage of the petitioning process, from drafting the document to circulating it to signing it.
12 Were we considering the validity of this restraint under the first amendment, the next step in that consideration would be to examine the standards which guide commanders in deciding whether to authorize petitioning activities.
In the civilian context the standards would have to be narrow, objective, and definite, see Shuttlesworth v. Birmingham , 394 U.S. 147, 150-51 , 89 S.Ct. 935 , 22 L.Ed.2d 162 (1969), and there would be "a heavy presumption against [the] constitutional validity" of the system of censorship implemented by the challenged regulations.
Southeastern Promotions, Ltd. v. Conrad , 420 U.S. 546, 558 , 95 S.Ct. 1239, 1246 , 43 L.Ed.2d 448 (1975).
However, "the different character of the military community and of the military mission .
.
.
may render permissible within the military that which would be constitutionally impermissible outside it," Parker v. Levy , 417 U.S. 733, 758 , 94 S.Ct. 2547, 2563 , 41 L.Ed.2d 439 (1974).
Under this more lenient constitutional standard applicable to restrictions on first amendment rights within the military sphere, the presumption against prior restraints would not be as great as it is in the civilian context; and we would be required to undertake a careful balancing of competing first amendment interests and military requirements.
Although the District Court in this instance, and other courts presented with the same issue as that raised on this appeal, 13 have undertaken the foregoing first amendment analysis, we believe that, it is neither necessary nor proper to do so because the validity of the challenged regulations, insofar [**31] as they pertain to petitioning activities, can be determined on statutory grounds.
10 U.S.C. 1034 In enacting this statute, Congress has eased the task of the courts in evaluating the validity of military restrictions on the right to petition.
The statute not only indicates that free and unrestricted communication by members of the armed forces with the Congress or members thereof is of particular concern to the legislative branch, but also commands that such communication be subject to additional protection beyond that afforded other kinds of speech by the first amendment.
Whatever standards may be held to apply generally to restrictions on speech within the military, the standards to be applied to restrictions on petitioning and related activity cannot be less stringent than those provided in 1034 .
Thus, the statute represents a legislative evaluation of the competing interest in free expression of views to members of Congress, on the one hand, and the special requirements of the military, on the other.
The difficult balancing which would otherwise have to be accomplished by the judiciary has been legislatively resolved: restrictions imposed upon lawful communication to Congress must be "necessary" to the national security.
The regulations involved in this case constitute in terms restrictions on communications with members of Congress.
The legislative history of 1034 confirms that Congress sought by this legislation to prohibit military commanders from interfering with communications to members of Congress in advance of the actual sending of the communications.
14 A system of prior restraint--as opposed, for instance, to the post hoc imposition of penalties for scurrilous, obscene, mendacious, or other improper communications--is precisely what Congress intended to prohibit, subject to the limited exceptions noted in the statute.
The Government contends, however, that the statute quoted above was intended to protect only letters by individuals to members of Congress.
15 We think the legislative history indeed leaves no doubt that the right to present a solitary, individual grievance to a member of Congress is encompassed by 1034 .
16 But there is no indication that this is the outer limit of the communication which Congress sought to protect in passing this legislation.
We agree with the Secretary of Defense that 1034 protects also the right to petition members of Congress.
In a Directive entitled "Guidelines for Handling Dissident and Protest Activities Among Members of the Armed Forces," he stated: [**32] In addition, a member may petition or present any grievance to any member of Congress ( 10 U.S.C. 1034 ) D.O.D.
Directive No. 1325.6, III G (1969) (emphasis added).
We would suppose that quite often a soldier's intended communication with Congress could not effectively be accomplished through solitary letters, as, for instance, when the objective is to communicate widespread dissatisfaction concerning a particular grievance, rather than merely the grievance itself.
We also note that the system of prior restraint at issue in this case evidently applies not only to petitions but also to their next of kin, coordinated mailing campaigns utilizing pre-printed forms or letters containing identical messages.
The distribution of such material would appear to be subject to prior approval.
Particularly in view of the long and cherished tradition in this country, embodied in the first amendment (".
.
.
the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition Congress for a redress of grievances"), of collective presentation of grievances to those in authority in the form of petitions, we think it most unlikely that in protecting the right to communicate grievances to Congress, Congress did not intend to protect the right to solicit others to sign such communications.
Having concluded that the petitioning activities restricted in this instance by the challenged regulations are communications to members of Congress within the meaning of 1034 , our next task is to determine whether the system of prior restraint at issue falls within one of the exceptions to the general prohibition of that statute.
It is not seriously contended that the materials in issue here were "unlawful," within the meaning of that term as used in 1034 , by reason of their particular content.
The statute also states, however, that prior restraint is not prohibited where the communication thus restricted "violates regulations necessary to the security of the United States."
Thus the question we face is whether the regulations requiring prior approval of petitions to Congress on the Iwakuni Air Station are necessary to the security of the United States.
We note that this is not the way that courts in the two other cases involving the facial validity of similar military restrictions on petitions have framed the statutory question before them. 17 Rather than determining whether the system of prior restraint in the particular circumstances before them is within the national security exception to 1034 , these courts have measured the standard of "national security" against the guidelines which armed forces personnel have set down to guide commanding officers in granting or denying requests to distribute.
In both this case and the other two cases concerning restraints on petitioning activities, the guidelines essentially state that permission to distribute should be denied if the petition at issue presents "a clear danger to the loyalty, discipline, morale or safety" of service personnel, or if it advocates unlawful behavior.
18 [**33] The holdings in the other two cases that these guidelines are broader than the statutory national security exception address a question which, in our view, need not be reached.
The particular guidelines which armed forces personnel have set down to guide commanding officers in granting or denying requests to distribute assume relevance only if it is first determined that the basic system of prior approval for any petitioning activity is itself "necessary to the security of the United States."
If this determination were affirmative, then we would face the issue of whether the standards set out in the guidelines for rejection of requests are also commensurate with the statutory standard.
Refusal to grant a request to distribute is a second, separate restriction in addition to the universally applicable restriction which takes the form of a system of prior restraint.
We emphasize again that when Congress prohibited restrictions on communications with Congress, it clearly intended this prohibition to apply to a system of prior approval itself.
We conclude that no showing has been made that a system of prior restraint on petitioning activities on the Iwakuni Air Station is necessary to the national security.
The findings of the District Court with respect to the nature of the military mission at the base are not extensive, but it is clear that the station is not in an actual and current combat zone.
While an affidavit introduced in the Court below states that the base is "combat-ready," there are no combat activities performed by base personnel during peacetime.
19 We understand that order and discipline might be more tightly maintained were commanders given the opportunity to screen petitions prior to their circulation, but we do not think that the national security can be said to require that the objective of military discipline be pursued to the exclusion of all other interests.
If this were the case, then 1034 would be a nullity, for restrictions on petitioning activity, as on other types of speech, can always be said to decrease the possibility of lapses of military discipline.
We agree with the District Court that as long as the on-base petitioning activity is performed away from restricted or work areas during off-duty hours, there should be no prior approval required for these activities because such approval is not "necessary to the national security."
Our invalidation of the system of prior restraint on petitions to Congress at the Iwakuni Air Station does not leave military commanders without recourse against service personnel who initiate petitions which prove to be improper in their content.
See p. of 188 U.S.App.D.C.
, p. 912 of 575 F.2d supra .
Those who undertake such petitioning may be punished under applicable provisions of the Code of Military Justice or under applicable criminal law.
It is the system of prior restraint on petitions to Congress which is incompatible with 1034 .
III The Government has strenuously argued that this case is controlled by the Supreme Court's decision in Greer v. Spock , 424 U.S. 828 , 96 S.Ct. 1211 , 47 L.Ed.2d 505 (1976).
We respond to this argument at some length because we think it is based on important misconceptions about the scope of the holdings in that case. The major portion of the Greer opinion related to the holding that the absolute ban on political demonstrations at Fort Dix, New Jersey was constitutionally permissible, a holding not directly relevant to the statutory issue before us relating to petitioning Congress.
However, Greer also held that the first amendment rights of the civilian plaintiffs were not violated by another regulation which prohibited them from distributing political campaign literature at the base without prior command approval.
Because the plaintiffs in Greer had not presented their literature for prior approval, the Court did not face the issue of whether the regulation [**34] was constitutional as applied; rather, the Court held that the challenged regulation was not facially invalid, id. at 838-840 , 96 S.Ct. 1211 .
The regulation in Greer authorizing prior restraint read as follows: Id. at 831 , 96 S.Ct. at 1214 .
The guidelines governing command refusal of requests to distribute were in all relevant aspects identical to those in the case before us, see id. at 831 , 96 S.Ct. 1211 n. 2.
We find Greer neither controlling nor persuasive with respect to the issue of the validity of the regulations implementing a system of prior restraint on petitions at the Iwakuni Air Station.
Most significantly, of course, the holding in Greer was constitutionally based.
The Greer Court had no occasion to consider the validity of that prior restraint regulation under 1034 because petitions to Congress were not involved in Greer .
The Court's statement that "nothing in the Constitution .
.
.
disables a military commander from acting to avert what he perceives to be a clear danger to the loyalty, discipline, or morale of troops on the base under his command," id. at 840 , 96 S.Ct. at 1218 (emphasis added), 20 is therefore fully consistent with our conclusion that prior restraints on all petitioning activities at a base such as Iwakuni is violative of 1034 .
Moreover, even apart from the fact that the decision we now make is statutorily based, the above-quoted statement is consistent with our holding because, as earlier noted, commanders remain free to punish--and thus deter--petitioning activities which are unlawful or otherwise inconsistent with the military mission.
We have held only that at a base such as Iwakuni commanders are not free to use a system of prior restraints to inhibit such activities; they remain free to do so in other ways. 21 We also note that, even if we were to decide the issue before us on constitutional grounds, it is not clear that Greer would be controlling.
Careful study of the regulation at issue in Greer leaves uncertain the question of whether or to what extent it in fact restricts petitioning activities.
Although petitions could conceivably be encompassed within the term "other writings," it is not at all clear that solicitation of signatures is encompassed by the specific activities proscribed: "distribution" or "posting."
In any event, the Greer regulation is obviously not directed at petitioning activities in the significant way that the regulations in this case are.
The Supreme Court has previously enunciated the judgment that a statute should not be struck down as facially invalid simply because it potentially touches upon constitutionally protected activity at the margin.
Parker v. Levy , supra 417 U.S. at 760 , 94 S.Ct. 2547 .
Thus the Court's decision to uphold the regulation in Greer need not imply that the regulation would be constitutional if applied to petitioning activities.
Section 1034 is an exercise by Congress of its constitutional power "[t]o make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces."
U.S.Const.
art.
1, 8 , cl.
14.
In doing so Congress may, of [**35] course, elect to provide rights and privileges extending beyond those minimally guaranteed by the Constitution.
Whatever the reach of that guarantee may be in a base of this kind, it is plainly evident that Congress in enacting 1034 has been motivated by a purpose to strengthen, and not to limit, the first amendment rights of petition in the case of service personnel.
It is, in any event, the statutory standard to which we look in determining the validity of the service regulations challenged in this case; and we find these regulations wanting insofar as they deal with petitioning activity directed to members of Congress.
We remand the case to the District Court with directions to revise its judgment in the manner indicated herein.
It is so ordered .
