 AINSWORTH , Circuit Judge: The question for decision is whether the district court correctly dismissed this suit for lack of jurisdiction.
Plaintiffs are eight individuals, all non-Texas citizens and trustees of Fidelity Mortgage Investors, a Massachusetts business trust (FMI), who filed this complaint as representatives of FMI seeking damages for breach of contract against defendant Navarro Savings Association, a Texas corporation, in the sum of $1,174,525.17 plus interest and attorneys' fees.
Jurisdiction is asserted by plaintiffs under both the diversity of citizenship and federal question provisions of law. 28 U.S.C. 1332 , 1331.
The district court rejected both bases of citizenship.
1 We disagree with the district court's ruling and hold that jurisdiction should have been maintained under diversity of citizenship.
It is thus unnecessary that we consider whether there is also federal question jurisdiction.
According to the allegations contained in plaintiffs' complaint, on September 9, 1971, the president of Rockwall Estates, Inc. executed on behalf of the corporation a promissory note to plaintiffs in the amount of $850,000 to evidence money lent to the corporation.
The note provided that the principal amount should become due and payable two years from the date thereof but interest payments were to be due and payable monthly.
The promissory note provided in pertinent part as follows: According to the allegations of plaintiffs' suit, prior to and contemporaneously with the execution of the promissory note described, defendant Navarro Savings Association of Dallas, Texas, acting through its president, executed loan commitment letters to Rockwall Estates, Inc. dated July 26, 1971, which were delivered and accepted by Rockwall's president at the closing of the loan by FMI to Rockwall Estates, Inc. on September 9, 1971.
Under these "take out" commitment letters defendant Navarro agreed to loan to Rockwall Estates, Inc. $850,000 any time between September 8, 1973 and August 31, 1974 "so that such sum could be used by Rockwall Estates, Inc. to pay to Plaintiff the sums due under the note to them."
2 Plaintiffs also alleged that on August 5, 1971, the president of defendant Navarro sent to FMI through Ronald L. Langley for its advisors a letter agreement (attached as an exhibit) which provided that Navarro would either purchase the Rockwall mortgage note of $850,000 or make available funds for additional loan at any time the note becomes delinquent.
It was further alleged that on September 9, 1971, at the closing of the loan by FMI to Rockwall, the president of defendant Navarro executed and delivered the loan commitment letters and orally stated to FMI's representative that the commitment fee had been actually received by Navarro.
Thereafter, on September 10, 1971, the president of Rockwall assigned in writing the commitment letters and obligations of defendant Navarro to FMI.
It is alleged that it was upon reliance of the assignment and commitment letters that the loan of $850,000 was made by FMI to Rockwall.
Plaintiffs further alleged that when Rockwall Estates, Inc. became sixty days' delinquent in the payment of installments due on its loan to FMI, FMI gave defendant Navarro notice to make the loan covered by its commitment, but Navarro "breached its obligation under the commitment to make the loan in question" causing FMI to foreclose on the Deed of Trust on real estate securing the note, and resulting in damages and a deficiency to plaintiffs in the amount of $174,525.17 plus interest and attorneys' fees as provided in the note plus $1,000,000 punitive and exemplary damages.
The allegations in the suit of plaintiffs, trustees of FMI, disclose that under Article III of the Declaration of Trust, "Trustees' Power," the trustees have the following general power (3.1): full, absolute and exclusive power, control and authority over the Trust Estate free from any power and control of the Shareholders (emphasis supplied) Article III, "Specific Powers," (3.2r) of the Declaration provides that the powers of the trustees shall include the power "[t]o collect, sue for and receive all sums of money coming due to the Trust, and to prosecute, join, defend, compromise, abandon, or adjust, any actions, suits, claims, demands or other litigation relating to the Trust, the Trust Estate or the Trust's affairs."
Article I of the Declaration of Trust (1.1) states in part that "the Trustees shall conduct and transact the activities of the Trust, make and execute all documents and instruments and sue and be sued in the name of the Trust or in their names as Trustees of the Trust."
A careful review of the Declaration of Trust, as indicated above, amply supports plaintiffs' contention that as trustees of FMI they are the real parties at interest, exclusively entitled to enforce the rights at issue in this case. In addition to the powers already enumerated, plaintiffs as trustees have absolute power to invest the capital and funds of the trust, to lend money, and to possess and exercise the rights incident to the ownership of mortgage loans.
See Declaration of Trust, Article 3.2(a), (b), (c), (g) and (k).
Article IV states that the trustees are "responsible for the general policies of the Trust and for such general supervision of the business of the Trust conducted by officers, agents, employees, investment advisers or independent contractors of the Trust as may be necessary to insure that such business conforms to the provisions of this Declaration."
On the other hand, the shareholders' rights are extremely limited, since they are entitled only to the rights of equitable interest owners or beneficiary shareholders, without any powers of control or management whatsoever.
For example, Article 6.2, "Rights of Shareholders," in the Declaration reads in pertinent part as follows: Thus, according to the allegations of the suit and accompanying exhibits, it is apparent that the general and specific powers relating to the management and control of the FMI trust repose in the eight trustees who are plaintiffs in this suit.
The Declaration of Trust could not be more specific in this regard.
Likewise, the Rockwall promissory note of $850,000 was specifically made payable to the order of the eight trustees, plaintiffs herein, in their capacities as trustees of FMI under the Declaration of Trust.
The effect of the district court's holding that the citizenship of each of the shareholders must be considered rather than the citizenship of the individual trustees, in practical effect, denies access to the federal courts of a business trust under diversity of citizenship jurisdiction since it is virtually impossible to establish the citizenship of each of the approximately 9,500 beneficiary shareholders.
Since the eight plaintiff trustees who are charged with the power to sue and be sued on behalf of the trust, and who are the persons in actual control of the trust and the real parties in interest, are citizens of a state other than Texas, and Navarro Savings is a citizen of Texas, there is complete diversity between plaintiffs and defendant.
We look, therefore, to the citizenship of the plaintiff trustees, not to that of the beneficiary shareholders, to discern diversity of citizenship in this case for purposes of jurisdiction.
The Declaration of Trust clearly and unequivocally states that the real parties in interest in matters affecting the FMI trust are the named trustees.
Their right to prosecute the action is also provided by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 17(a), which reads in pertinent part as follows: Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest trustee of an express trust (emphasis supplied) Thus, under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure the trustee of an express trust may sue in a representative capacity on behalf of the trust.
FMI is not a party to these proceedings.
The trustees of the trust are the plaintiffs, all of whom are of non-Texas citizenship.
It is unnecessary, therefore, to look beyond the terms of the Declaration of Trust, the provisions of the promissory note, and the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure to determine that the true parties in interest in this case, in exclusive control of the trust, with the sole right to bring this action, are the eight trustee plaintiffs.
The trust here is analogous to a limited partnership, and the citizenship of its beneficiary shareholders should not be counted in determining the existence of diversity jurisdiction.
The citizenship of the shareholders should be disregarded in the same manner as was done by the Second Circuit in Colonial Realty Corp. v. Bache & Co. , 1966, 358 F.2d 178, 184 (Friendly, J.), cert. denied , 385 U.S. 817 , 87 S.Ct. 40 , 17 L.Ed.2d 56 (1966), where the Court held that "a suit brought against a New York partnership must thus be considered to be against the general partners only and identity of citizenship between a limited partner and the plaintiff does not destroy diversity."
3 The Comment, Limited Partnerships and Federal Diversity Jurisdiction , 45 U.Chi.L.Rev.
384, 407, states the real party in interest principle very succinctly: but the "control" or "real party" concept trust beneficiaries, in contrast, have only "equitable" interests in their respective entities trust beneficiaries, should not be counted for diversity purposes Colonial Realty (emphasis supplied) (footnotes omitted) The same Comment discusses the holdings in the Colonial Realty and opposing Carlsberg Resources cases in the following reasoned manner: Colonial Realty Corp. v. Bache & Co. Chapman Great Southern rights, powers, and responsibilities Carlsberg Resources Corp. v. Cambria Savings & Loan Association Colonial Realty Carlsberg Resources Colonial Realty Chapman Great Southern Marshall Chapman Marshall Chapman Chapman A jurisdictional test that looks to the real parties to the controversy not only makes sense of the diversity precedents, but also accords well with the protective policy underlying the diversity jurisdiction, a policy which remains vital today Id. at 417-18 (emphasis supplied).
4 It is pertinent to note that the two Supreme Court cases principally relied upon by the district court as authority for dismissing this suit for lack of jurisdiction are inappropriate and inapposite.
United Steelworkers v. R. H. Bouligny, Inc. , 382 U.S. 145 , 86 S.Ct. 272 , 15 L.Ed.2d 217 (1965), cited by the district court as authority for its holding that the citizenship of each of the beneficiary shareholders is decisive for purposes of diversity jurisdiction, does not pertain to the circumstances here.
In Bouligny the question was whether an unincorporated labor union should be treated as a citizen for purposes of federal jurisdiction without regard to the citizenship of its members, and the Court answered in the negative.
However, we do not read in Bouligny a general rule that the courts must look to all unincorporated associations' membership to determine diversity jurisdiction.
The present case differs on its facts from Bouligny since, under the express provisions of the Declaration of Trust here, the trustees are designated as the ones in exclusive control of the trust, with power to sue and be sued on behalf of the trust, and no such authority is conferred on the beneficiary shareholders.
Additionally, the Rockwall promissory note here was made payable to the trustees who brought this suit.
Bouligny is applicable only to business associations which seek federal court diversity jurisdiction as entities.
Here, the trustees sue as individual representatives of the trust, and assert federal jurisdiction as such.
No attempt is made by the individual parties to become entities as occurred in Bouligny .
We note that the opinion in Bouligny does not inform us who to look to as the relevant members of the association whose citizenship determines diversity jurisdiction.
In Bouligny the Court was concerned with an unincorporated association having only one class of membership.
In the instant case, our real-party-in-interest analysis notes that there is no single class of membership, all with equal rights to control and management such as in a general partnership.
In the present case, another class, the trustees, has the exclusive control and management of the trust and the sole right to sue and be sued.
To decide which class of membership or shareholders should be counted for diversity jurisdiction purposes, it is necessary on a case-by-case basis (there being no statutory model) to determine which class has exclusive power to control and manage the trust.
Here, the trustees and their citizenship alone should be looked to for the purposes of determining if each of them is diverse from that of the defendant.
5 "[A] close reading of Bouligny suggests that the Court's language concerning the limitations of the judicial role can be restricted to the facts of the case. The Court's discussion of the difficulties of fashioning a test for labor union citizenship can be read as explaining why only Congress could extend citizenship to unions as entities."
(footnote omitted) 45 U.Chi.L.Rev.
384, 392.
6 Nor is the citation by the district court of Morrissey v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue , 296 U.S. 344 , 56 S.Ct. 289 , 80 L.Ed. 263 (1935), apposite.
Morrissey involved the question of the taxing of a trust under existing statutory provisions.
Diversity jurisdiction was not at issue.
The Court held that the trust in Morrissey should be taxed in the same way as a corporation under the statutory provision which defined a corporation for tax purposes as including "'associations, joint-stock companies and insurance companies.'"
The business trust there was held to be an unincorporated association.
7 Neither Bouligny nor Morrissey , therefore, controls the present case.
This suit is, therefore, maintainable under diversity jurisdiction.
We are, of course, aware that the Judicial Conference of the United States, by appropriate resolution, has requested that Congress change the law so that federal courts may be divested of diversity jurisdiction.
However, until Congress amends the statute in this regard the federal courts are obliged to take those suits properly before them as diversity cases.
This is such a case.
Accordingly, the judgment of the district court dismissing the suit for lack of jurisdiction is reversed and the case is remanded to the district court for trial on the merits.
REVERSED AND REMANDED.
