 SPRECHER , Circuit Judge.
This appeal involves the validity of an ordinance of the Village of Hoffman Estates, Illinois ("village") purporting to regulate merchants who sell items designed or marketed for use with illegal cannabis or drugs.
Plaintiff, a Hoffman Estates record store, appeals the district court's denial of plaintiff's motion for a permanent injunction and declaratory relief.
I On February 20, 1978, the Village of Hoffman Estates Board of Trustees enacted Ordinance No. 969-1978, entitled "an Ordinance Amending the Municipal Code of the Village of Hoffman Estates by Providing for Regulation of Items Designed or Marketed for Use with Illegal Cannabis or Drugs," to be effective May 1, 1978.
The ordinance requires that any person within the village who sells any "item, effect, paraphernalia, accessory or thing which is designed or marketed for use with illegal cannabis or drugs" must obtain a license for $150.00, file affidavits averring that the applicant and each employee authorized to sell such items has never been convicted of a drug-related offense, and keep records, to be open for police inspection, of every covered item sold, along with the name and address of the purchaser.
The ordinance prohibits sale to minors of any covered items.
Any violation of the ordinance is punishable by a fine of not less than $10.00 nor more than $500.00, and each day that a violation continues is deemed a separate offense.
In addition, the village attorney prepared "license guidelines" which define certain terms relevant to the ordinance.
Plaintiff Flipside Records ("Flipside") for more than three years prior to May 1, 1978, sold a wide variety of merchandise including smoking accessories, jewelry, novelty devices, and literature.
Among these items were clamps, "alligator clips," mirrors, pipes of various types and sizes, and a large number of cigarette rolling-papers in a variety of colors.
Soon after enactment of the ordinance, plaintiff was notified that Flipside appeared to be marketing items that would be covered by the ordinance.
Alleging that it was unable to determine which items would be covered by the ordinance, and wishing to avoid a violation and arrest which might preclude Flipside's access to a federal forum for adjudication of its constitutional claims, Flipside removed from its shelves a wide variety of merchandise. 1 On May 30, 1978, Flipside initiated proceedings in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, seeking a declaratory judgment that the ordinance violated the First, Fourth, Fifth, Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments, Article I, Section 8 , Clause 3 and Article I, Section 10 of the United States Constitution.
Plaintiff also sought temporary, preliminary and permanent injunctive relief to restrain enforcement of Ordinance No. 969-1978, and damages pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1983 for the actions of the village and its agents, 2 which allegedly caused Flipside to be deprived of rights secured to it by the United States Constitution.
On May 30, 1978, Judge Leighton denied plaintiff's motion for a temporary restraining order.
On September 1, 1978, a hearing on the motion for a preliminary injunction was held, and Judge Leighton denied the motion.
The trial for a permanent injunction and declaratory judgment was held on March 23, 1979.
On February 11, 1980, the trial court entered a Memorandum Order awarding judgment to the defendants.
Flipside, Hoffman Estates, Inc. v. Village of Hoffman Estates , 485 F.Supp.
400 (N.D.Ill.1980).
Plaintiff appeals that order on several constitutional grounds, alleging that Ordinance No. 969-1978 is impermissibly vague in violation of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and violates the First Amendment and the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
II Since this case began in the district court, and indeed, since the district court's opinion was published in February, 1980, there has been an explosion of litigation concerning so-called drug paraphernalia laws.
Most of the cases involve statutes or ordinances which make the sale, manufacture, or possession of drug paraphernalia a crime, usually a misdemeanor.
3 There have been a variety of results in the district courts, even within the same district.
4 As of this writing none of these paraphernalia law cases has been decided by a court of appeals on the merits, * although in Geiger v. City of Eagan , 618 F.2d 26 (8th Cir. 1980), in entering a preliminary injunction restraining enforcement of an ordinance the court flatly stated that the challenged ordinance was unconstitutionally vague on its face.
618 F.2d at 28 .
5 The challenges to drug paraphernalia statutes often involve a number of constitutional claims, as here where the village ordinance is attacked on due process, equal protection, and first amendment grounds.
The successful attacks usually have won on the issue of due process: drug paraphernalia statutes have been found impermissibly vague in violation of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
6 In August, 1979, the Drug Enforcement Administration of the United States Department of Justice published the "Model Drug Paraphernalia Act" ("Model Act").
According to the comments published with the Model Act, it was drafted to enable states and local jurisdictions to cope with the paraphernalia problem and is intended to be enacted as an amendment to the Uniform Controlled Substance Act, which has been adopted by Illinois and many other states.
7 District courts have recently upheld laws based on the Model Act, although a few have found it necessary to sever some parts.
8 These courts agree that criminal statutes, prohibiting the manufacture, sale, or possession of items determined to be drug paraphernalia, must be carefully drafted in order to focus on the drug-related intent of the person charged.
9 III The ordinance at issue here differs from the type of statutes at issue in the above-cited cases.
Hoffman Estates Ordinance No. 969-1978 does not attempt to criminalize the sale or possession of drug-related devices.
In fact, the preamble to the ordinance states, "it is recognized that such items are legal retail items and that their sale cannot be banned " Yet one of the purposes of the ordinance obviously must be to do indirectly what it claims it cannot do directly--to effectively ban the sale of a broad class of items, some of which may be used with illegal drugs.
After all, few retailers are willing to brand themselves as sellers of drug paraphernalia, and few customers will buy items with the condition of signing their names and addresses to a register available to the police.
But the legal issue here does not depend on the covert purpose of de facto banning certain items.
Even if the ordinance does discourage the sale of some "innocent" items, the ordinance would be constitutional so long as it carefully defined the items sought to be regulated so that a person in plaintiff's position could determine whether, and to which items, the license requirement applied.
10 As stated in Geiger v. City of Eagan , 618 F.2d 26, 28 (5th Cir. 1980), a city "clearly has the power through a properly drawn ordinance to discourage the availability of drugs and the acceptance of drug use by prohibiting the sale of drug-related devices."
11 Thus the village may, with a properly drawn ordinance, regulate drug paraphernalia.
The type of regulation chosen here bears a rational relation to the village's interest in preventing drug abuse.
It prevents convicted drug dealers and users from selling paraphernalia and thereby gaining contacts with a ready market, and it forbids the sale of paraphernalia to minors.
But sympathetic as we are with the village's attempt to fight drug abuse through this novel licensing scheme, the village must do so in a constitutional manner.
IV The critical issue here is whether this ordinance is so vague as to violate the due process clause of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution.
In Grayned v. City of Rockford , 408 U.S. 104 , 92 S.Ct. 2294 , 33 L.Ed.2d 222 (1972), the Supreme Court set out the policies behind the due process doctrine of vagueness.
In a passage cited in virtually every opinion dealing with vagueness challenges to statutes or ordinances, the Court stated: Id. at 108-09 , 92 S.Ct. at 2298-99 (footnotes omitted).
See also Smith v. Goguen , 415 U.S. 566, 572 , 94 S.Ct. 1242, 1246 , 39 L.Ed.2d 605 (1974); Connally v. General Construction Co. , 269 U.S. 385, 391 , 46 S.Ct. 126, 127 , 70 L.Ed. 322 (1926).
This ordinance is subject to attack for vagueness despite the fact that it is an ordinance, not a statute, and it purports to license, 12 not prohibit, sale of "items designed or marketed for use with illegal cannabis or drugs."
A law may run afoul of the vagueness doctrine even though it does not impose criminal sanctions, because the fundamental defect is not the penalty but rather "the exaction of obedience to a rule or standard so vague and indefinite as really to be no rule or standard at all."
A. B. Small Co. v. American Sugar Refining Co. , 267 U.S. 233, 239 , 45 S.Ct. 295, 297 , 69 L.Ed. 589 (1925).
The lack of a criminal penalty in the ordinance does not excuse vagueness where the effect is to deprive persons of constitutional rights.
Giaccio v. Pennsylvania , 382 U.S. 399, 402 , 86 S.Ct. 518, 520 , 15 L.Ed.2d 447 (1966) ("this state Act whether labeled 'penal' or not must meet the challenge that it is unconstitutionally vague").
See also Bence v. Breier , 501 F.2d 1185, 1188 (7th Cir. 1974), cert. denied , 419 U.S. 1121 , 95 S.Ct. 804 , 42 L.Ed.2d 821 (1975); Soglin v. Kauffman , 418 F.2d 163, 166-67 (7th Cir. 1969).
Furthermore, in determining whether a civil or criminal enactment is sufficiently clear that persons affected can determine what the law requires of them, the same rules of construction apply whether it is a statute or an ordinance.
Martin v. King , 417 F.2d 458, 461 (10th Cir. 1969).
In order to analyze plaintiff's facial attack on this ordinance, we set out the entire ordinance adopted by the village, as well as the license guidelines which became an integral part of the ordinance.
Ordinance No. 969-1978 Section 1 Section 8-7-16 Section 8-7-16A Section 2 Section 3 As noted above, in order to survive a vagueness attack, an ordinance must give persons a reasonably clear idea of what the law expects of them.
We agree with the district court that "[i]t is obvious that this ordinance is not a model of legislative clarity; defendants do not claim that it is."
485 F.Supp.
at 406 .
Of course, in determining whether a statute or ordinance is vague, a court cannot invalidate every ordinance which could have been drafted more precisely, since "[i]n most English words and phrases there lurk uncertainties."
Robinson v. United States , 324 U.S. 282, 286 , 65 S.Ct. 666, 668 , 89 L.Ed. 1437 (1945).
But the inherent vagueness of the English language, coupled with the admirable intention of stemming drug abuse, cannot save an ordinance which fails to give fair notice of what it prohibits.
According to the district court, the plaintiff should be able to tell what the ordinance requires of it by looking to the common, ordinary, dictionary meanings of the words "items", "effect", "paraphernalia", "accessory", and "thing".
13 But the fact that these five words have ordinary dictionary meanings does not sufficiently clarify the scope of the licensing requirement, which applies to any person who sells any "items, effect, paraphernalia, accessory or thing which is designed or marketed for use with illegal cannabis or drugs ."
The italicized phrase is the key to triggering application of the statute.
The words "designed", "marketed", "cannabis", and "drugs" may also have common, ordinary meanings which can be found in a dictionary, but the entire phrase is more than the sum of the meanings of the individual terms used.
Unless the license guidelines give additional clarity to this phrase, we must agree with plaintiff that the ordinance is so vague that it does not give sufficient notice to merchants as to whether they are required to obtain a license, and for which items the name and address of the purchaser must be recorded and sale to minors prohibited.
Turning first to the words of the ordinance, the primary words to be interpreted are "designed" and "marketed", since these words link the innocuous terms "item", "effect", "paraphernalia", 14 "accessory", and "thing" to illegal drugs, thereby triggering the regulatory purpose.
15 The phrase "designed for use with drugs" was held to be one of the fatal flaws, in an ordinance far more detailed than the one at issue here, by a three-judge district court in Indiana.
In Indiana Chapter, N.O.R.M.L.
v. Sendak , No.
TH 75-142-C (S.D.Ind.
Feb. 4, 1980) (Swygert, Cir. J. presiding) 16 the court stated: Id .
, slip op. at 12-13.
The license guidelines imply that items "designed" for use with drugs mean those items which are inherently suited only for drug use, and are thus covered by the ordinance regardless of the manner of display or avowed intent of the retailer.
For example, the guidelines state that "roach clips" are " designed for use with illegal cannabis or drugs and therefore covered," (emphasis added).
But the guidelines do not define "roach clip."
Consequently, stocking any item that could possibly be used as a roach clip, such as an alligator clip or bobby pin, could subject a retailer to the licensing requirement.
In reality, it is inconceivable that sale of these innocent items would subject a hardware store or drugstore to the burdens of the license fee and sales register, as well as to the label of "drug paraphernalia store."
Perhaps the village wishes to draw a line between items which inherently are roach clips and "innocent" items merely used as roach clips.
But neither the ordinance nor the guidelines draws this distinction, and we are uncertain as to whether any definition of a roach clip could draw such a distinction based on design alone.
17 Another item which the guidelines say is inherently drug related is "paper of colorful design, names oriented for use with illegal cannabis or drugs and displayed."
But the guidelines also say that "white paper or tobacco oriented paper not necessarily designed for use with illegal cannabis or drugs may be displayed."
This guideline attempts to tell the retailer which rolling papers are covered and which are not, but the definition is circular because it puts the burden back on the retailer to decide what is "tobacco oriented" paper not necessarily designed for use with drugs and what is "drug oriented" paper.
Is all white rolling paper outside the ordinance, even if there is an advertisement for a water pipe on the package?
Does "paper of colorful design" mean that brown or beige paper is covered, or could some colored paper be considered "tobacco oriented"?
An additional element of vagueness in the "designed for use with drugs" standard is added by the fact that the manufacturer, not the retailer, designs the items sold.
Consequently, the design intent of the manufacturer, not of the regulated seller, triggers the retailer's duty to obtain a license and the customer's obligation to sign a register available to the police.
18 Next, we examine the phrase " marketed for use with illegal cannabis or drugs" to determine whether the vagueness already noted can be eliminated.
Defendants argue that the ordinance's reference to the marketing approach used by a retailer makes possible an inference about the seller's intent to sell a given item for use with illegal drugs.
19 Defendants argue that presuming that an item is intended for use with drugs from a retailer's marketing approach satisfies the test for the validity of a statutory presumption, specifically that "there be a rational connection between the facts proved and the fact presumed."
Leary v. United States , 395 U.S. 6, 33 , 89 S.Ct. 1532, 1546 , 23 L.Ed.2d 57 (1969), quoting Tot v. United States , 319 U.S. 463, 467 , 63 S.Ct. 1241, 1244 , 87 L.Ed. 1519 (1943).
Defendants' reliance on Leary is misplaced.
In Leary the Court struck down a presumption that a person in possession of marijuana knows that the marijuana is of foreign origin.
20 The court held that despite the fact that most domestically consumed marijuana comes from abroad, 395 U.S. at 39-44 , 89 S.Ct. at 1549, 1552 , "it would be no more than speculation were we to say that even as much as a majority of possessors 'knew' the source of their marijuana."
395 U.S. at 53 , 89 S.Ct. at 1557 .
The issue in Leary was whether the "fact proved," (marijuana possession), and "fact presumed," (knowledge of importation), were rationally connected.
But the issue here is whether the "fact proved," (marketing scheme), is too vague a standard to give rise to the "fact presumed," (drug-relatedness).
21 This vagueness issue is quite different from the "rational connection" issue in Leary .
The license guidelines purport to define the type of marketing approach that is indicative of the sale of items for use in conjunction with illegal drugs.
For example, the guidelines indicate that ordinary pipes can be distinguished from drug-related pipes according to the pipes' proximity to nonwhite paper, roach clips, or literature encouraging illegal use of cannabis or drugs.
22 Similarly, "paraphernalia" is covered "if displayed with roach clips or literature encouraging illegal use of cannabis or illegal drugs."
The word "paraphernalia" is nowhere defined, but, as discussed earlier, the district court found that the word should be given its ordinary meaning of "articles of equipment."
Thus, it appears that displaying almost any item in the proximity 23 of "literature encouraging illegal use of drugs" requires the store to obtain a license and have purchasers sign the register.
This means that paper clips sold next to Rolling Stone magazine conceivably could trigger the requirements of the ordinance.
Perhaps the village would not construe the ordinance in this manner.
But the point is that there is no way for a seller to determine which particular items or arrangement of merchandise will require a license.
Defendants argue that the phrase "items, effect, paraphernalia, accessory or thing which is designed or marketed for use with illegal cannabis or drugs" adequately defines that has become known as drug paraphernalia, 24 so that a retailer in plaintiff's position can determine whether the ordinance applies to him.
Defendants cite McGowan v. Maryland , 366 U.S. 420, 428 , 81 S.Ct. 1101, 1106 , 6 L.Ed.2d 393 (1961), for the proposition that when a regulatory ordinance applies to a retailer , who has an opportunity for clarification prior to license application, problems of interpretation which might confuse ordinary citizens do not arise.
In McGowan , which involved a statute that exempted from Sunday closing laws retail sales of "merchandise essential to, or customarily sold at, or incidental to, the operation of" bathing beaches and amusement parks, the Court stated: business people 366 U.S. at 428 , 81 S.Ct. at 1106 (emphasis added).
Despite the fact that "[i]n the field of regulatory statutes governing business activities where the acts limited are in a narrow category, greater leeway is allowed," Papachristou v. City of Jacksonville , 405 U.S. 156, 162 , 92 S.Ct. 839, 843 , 31 L.Ed.2d 110 (1972), this ordinance fails to satisfy the principles behind the vagueness doctrine.
The greater leeway allowed when an ordinance is applied to a retailer, who supposedly is familiar with his industry, does not fit this case. The McGowan standard allows "ordinary commercial knowledge" or "reasonable investigation" to clarify the standards of an ordinance.
25 But to apply the McGowan analysis here would beg the question in issue.
To apply that standard as defendants suggest would presuppose that the business the retailers are engaged in is the business of selling items "designed or marketed for use with illegal cannabis or drugs."
The plaintiff vigorously contests that characterization of its business.
A further element of vagueness in the marketing concept arises from the danger of arbitrary and discriminatory enforcement by those charged with enforcement of the ordinance.
See Grayned , 408 U.S. at 108-09 , 92 S.Ct. at 2298-99 .
Since, as discussed above, the ordinance and guidelines are vague as to what constitutes items designed for use with illegal drugs, the ordinance is equally vague as to which supposedly designed-for-drug items will bring other items under the ordinance through the marketing proximity standard.
If an item is not considered drug-related per se , then the subjective factors that enter into interpreting a retailer's marketing scheme make possible the dangers noted in Housworth v. Glisson , 485 F.Supp.
at 38 (N.D.Ga.1978), aff'd , 614 F.2d 1295 (5th Cir. 1980): particularly when conflicting lifestyles and political views suffuse the decision maker's perception of what buyers will do with the product (Emphasis added).
We find that there does exist a genuine danger that enforcement of this ordinance will be used to harass individuals choosing lifestyles and views different from those of the majority culture.
Defendants may argue that "conflicting lifestyles and political views" will not affect enforcement of the ordinance, but defendants already demonstrate a certain bias when they state in their brief "[d]efendant Village does expect that the marketing approach that encourages drug use by youth will be eliminated by responsible businesses and conducted under reasonable regulation by other businesses."
Appellees' Brief at 11.
Defendants obviously have concluded that no business which must be licensed under the ordinance is a "responsible business."
Thus the ordinance is not, as the village argues, the same as the village's regulation of milk, flowers, and other activities requiring a license.
Rather, the ordinance brands licensees as irresponsible businesses, a stigma which should not be applied according to the tastes of village officials who may be offended by a retailer's marketing approach.
Thus, with regard to both the design and marketing standards, the ordinance "impermissibly delegates basic policy matters to [those charged with administering the ordinance] for resolution on an ad hoc and subjective basis."
Grayned , 408 U.S. at 108-09 , 92 S.Ct. at 2298-99 .
26 Another aspect of the ordinance which creates the danger of arbitrary enforcement, as well as failing to notify retailers of what the law expects of them, is Section 1(D) of the ordinance which provides: Defendants argue that this record-keeping requirement is supported by Illinois Revised Code ch.
56½, Section 1312 , which requires that purchasers sign for Schedule V controlled substances.
27 But since possession or distribution of Schedule V substances is in itself illegal, except as authorized for medical purposes, 28 the Section 1312 register serves to detect illegal, non-medical use by purchasers or pharmacists.
In the ordinance before us, however, the items to be regulated are, according to the ordinance itself, "legal retail items," unlike Schedule V substances.
Nevertheless, the record-keeping section implies that a customer who purchases an item "designed or marketed for use with illegal cannabis or drugs" intends to use the item with illegal cannabis or drugs.
A further implication could be that a customer is subject to police scrutiny or even to a search warrant on the basis of the purchase of a legal item.
The potential for abuse in inferring use or possession of drugs from purchase or possession of certain items was noted by the Eighth Circuit in Geiger v. City of Egan , 618 F.2d 26 (8th Cir. 1980).
In Geiger , the court struck down a statute which made possession of a "drug-related device" a misdemeanor.
The court stated: 618 F.2d at 29 (footnote omitted).
The danger here is similar to the danger in Geiger .
Here the danger of abuse arises from use of the police register, while in Geiger the danger arose from use of an arrest for possession of drug-related items as a basis for a search for controlled substances.
While the ordinance here does not make purchase of drug-related devices a criminal offense, the underlying problem of potential enforcement abuse arising from the registration requirement remains.
29 V Finally, defendants contend that the "licensing guidelines" represent only a beginning in clarifying what are "items, designed or marketed for use with illegal cannabis or drugs."
Defendants point to the village's Administrative Procedures Ordinance, No. 932-1977, which provides procedures for rule-making, including provisions for public comment on proposed rules, petition for adoption of new rules, and appeal of the adoption, amendment, or repeal of rules.
30 Presumably speaking of rules the village may adopt in the future pursuant to its Administrative Procedures Ordinance, defendants state, "[w]hile speculative, it is likely the guidelines in the Model Act would be used to identify the design and marketing intent."
31 Appellees' Br. at 7.
But the mere possibility that the vagueness in this ordinance might later be corrected by additional guidelines certainly cannot be a sound basis for holding it constitutional.
As discussed in Part IV, this ordinance is impermissibly vague on its face.
Therefore, it does not provide an administrative body with adequate standards to guide and limit the administrators' discretion in drawing guidelines.
"Further, where, as here, a rule contains no ascertainable standards for enforcement, administrative and judicial review can be only a meaningless gesture."
Bence v. Breier , 501 F.2d 1185, 1190 (7th Cir. 1974), cert. denied , 419 U.S. 1121 , 95 S.Ct. 804 , 42 L.Ed.2d 821 (1975).
In addition, the possibility that plaintiff itself may appeal or propose new guidelines under the Administrative Procedures Ordinance does not shift the burden to plaintiff to ensure that the village adopts rules with ascertainable standards.
As stated in Grayned , "[i]t is a basic principle of due process that an enactment is void for vagueness if its prohibitions are not clearly defined."
408 U.S. at 108 , 92 S.Ct. at 2298 .
This ordinance and the existing guidelines fail to adequately define the items to be regulated, and thus a retailer in plaintiff's position is unable to determine what the law expects of him.
Thus, this ordinance must be declared void for vagueness.
32 Since we find this ordinance void for vagueness, it is unnecessary to reach plaintiff's other constitutional claims, and we express no opinion on them.
The order of the district court is Reversed.
