 THORNBERRY , Circuit Judge: In August 1970, John Tufts and the remaining appellants formed a general partnership for the purpose of constructing an apartment complex in Duncanville, Texas.
The partnership arranged for a loan of approximately $1.8 million in order to finance construction of the complex.
The mortgage note covered the entire cost and provided that neither the partnership nor the partners were personally liable for its repayment.
The complex was completed in August 1971.
Due to adverse economic conditions in the Duncanville area, the income generated by the complex was never enough to enable the partnership to make payments on the mortgage principal.
As of August 28, 1972, the fair market value of the property had declined to $1.4 million, and the principal balance due on the mortgage note remained at $1.8 million.
On that date, each partner sold his partnership interest and all of his right, title, and interest in property owned by the partnership to Fred Bayles, an unrelated third party.
1 Mr. Bayles agreed to pay the expenses incurred by the partners as a result of the sale, up to $250.
He paid no other consideration, and acquired the complex subject to the nonrecourse liability.
Each partner had included his proportionate share of the entire $1.8 million in computing his basis in the partnership, and the Commissioner did not dispute the propriety of that computation.
The Commissioner, however, included the full amount of the partnership nonrecourse liability in the amount realized upon the sale and therefore determined that each of the partners had realized a gain on the sale of his partnership interest.
2 The partners appealed to the tax court, arguing that nonrecourse liabilities should be included in amount realized only to the extent of the fair market value of the partnership property securing the indebtedness.
The tax court upheld the Commissioner, and the taxpayers filed this appeal.
The Supreme Court held in Crane v. Commissioner , 331 U.S. 1 , 67 S.Ct. 1047 , 91 L.Ed. 1301 (1947), that when property subject to a mortgage on which the owner of the property assumes no personal liability is sold, the amount realized includes the amount of the unassumed mortgage.
3 In footnote 37 of the Crane opinion, however, the Court observed: 331 U.S. at 14 n.37, 67 S.Ct. at 1054 .
The question presented by this appeal is whether footnote 37 creates an exception to the Crane holding through its clear implication that the amount realized on the disposition of property encumbered by a nonrecourse mortgage cannot exceed the fair market value of the property.
Our analysis of the reasons underlying the Crane decision leads us to the conclusion that such a fair market value limitation is warranted.
We therefore reverse the judgment of the tax court.
The Commissioner relies primarily on the decision in Millar v. Commissioner , 577 F.2d 212 (3rd Cir.), cert. denied , 439 U.S. 1046 , 99 S.Ct. 721 , 58 L.Ed.2d 704 (1978).
The Millar court rejected a literal reading of footnote 37 in view of what it thought to be the principal reason underlying the Crane decision.
The court focused on the following language: 557 F.2d at 215 , quoting Crane , 331 U.S. at 15-16 , 67 S.Ct. at 1055 .
According to the Millar panel, the Supreme Court was primarily concerned that the taxpayer might enjoy some sort of double deduction.
The tax court below, as well as the Commissioner on appeal, agreeing with Millar , also identified this concern for double deductions as the principal reason for the Crane holding.
They invoke the Crane double deduction language in support of a tax benefit theory: the argument, in essence, is that a taxpayer who has previously enjoyed the benefit of large tax deductions, without placing his own assets at risk, has, by taking those deductions, improved his economic position, thus realizing gain.
According to the Commissioner and the tax court, the taxpayer, on disposing of the property, must somehow be made to account for the benefits previously enjoyed.
We do not agree that this concern for double deductions was the principal reason underlying the Crane decision.
The Crane language leaves no doubt that the Court thought that Mrs.
Crane had improved her financial condition by availing herself of the allowable deductions.
But before the Court had even mentioned double deductions, it had already concluded that the Commissioner had properly determined the amount realized.
After reaching that conclusion, the Court acknowledged the distinction between statutory income (that which Congress has decided to reach through legislation) and constitutional income (that which Congress has the power to reach, if it chooses to do so).
Mrs.
Crane had argued in the alternative that she had been taxed on what was not income within the meaning of the sixteenth amendment.
The Court responded to this constitutional argument in the last paragraph of its opinion, and in that last paragraph the Court for the first time expressed concern for double deductions.
We therefore prefer to read this expression of concern as primarily a response to Mrs.
Crane's constitutional argument, and not as the principal justification for the statutory holding that the Court had announced earlier in the opinion.
4 There is an even more compelling reason why the fact that a taxpayer has previously enjoyed the benefit of large depreciation deductions is insufficient to justify an expansion of the definition of amount realized.
We see, by looking to the Internal Revenue Code, that Congress has already in fact accounted for those previous deductions.
According to the Code, "gain" from the sale or other disposition of property is computed by subtracting the "adjusted basis" from the "amount realized."
I. R.C.
1001(a) .
The "adjusted basis" is the cost of the property adjusted to reflect the depreciation, depletion, and other costs chargeable against the property.
I. R.C.
1016 .
Thus, any tax benefits that the taxpayer may have received in the form of prior deductions have already been factored into the gain equation through adjustments to basis.
Since those deductions have been accounted for through adjustments to basis, it follows logically that they cannot also support an expansion of the definition of amount realized.
To account for those deductions twice in the same equation by expanding the definition of amount realized as well as adjusting basis downward would, we think, be taxing the taxpayer twice on the same component of gain.
5 The Commissioner's reliance on a theory of tax benefit, then, is misplaced.
The Code clearly provides for a "recapture" of the prior deductions, 6 but not through its definition of amount realized.
When we look to what the Court said immediately before it announced its conclusion that the Commissioner had properly determined the amount realized, we see that the Court justified its result on a theory of economic benefit, first recognizing that the term "amount realized" could be expanded where an economic benefit equivalent to cash could be identified.
The Court began by noting that if Mrs.
Crane had been personally liable on the mortgage and the purchaser had either paid or assumed it, the amount so paid or assumed would clearly have been considered a part of the amount realized because Mrs.
Crane would have received the benefit of the payment "in 'as real and substantial [a sense]'" as if the money had been paid to her and then paid over by her to her creditors.
331 U.S. at 13 , 67 S.Ct. at 1054 , citing United States v. Hendler , 303 U.S. 564 , 58 S.Ct. 655 , 82 L.Ed. 1018 (1938).
That proposition and the economic principle from which it derives are indisputable: when a debt on which a taxpayer is personally liable is discharged, the taxpayer is freed from the necessity of paying the obligation with cash or other assets equal in value to the principal amount of the debt.
United States v. Kirby Lumber Co. , 284 U.S. 1 , 52 S.Ct. 4 , 76 L.Ed. 131 (1931).
What the Court thought followed from that proposition, however, is worth quoting: 37 the reality that an owner of property, mortgaged at a figure less than that at which the property will sell, must and will treat the conditions of the mortgage exactly as if they were his personal obligations 38 331 U.S. at 14 , 67 S.Ct. at 1054-55 (emphasis added).
This economic benefit theory is, we think, seriously flawed, in that it is premised on the notion that "an owner of property, mortgaged at a figure less than that at which the property will sell, must and will treat the conditions of the mortgage exactly as if they were his personal obligations."
We admit that we initially succumbed to the facile appeal of that notion, but on reflection we are convinced that it rings true only so long as the taxpayer actually wants to keep the property.
7 If the taxpayer decides, for any reason whatsoever, that he no longer wants the burdens and responsibilities that accompany ownership, he can transfer the property to a third party with absolutely no regard to that party's willingness or ability to meet the mortgage obligations, yet rest assured that his other assets cannot be reached.
We agree with Professor Bittker: Bittker, Tax Shelters, Nonrecourse Debt, and the Crane Case , 33 Tax L.Rev.
277, 282 (1978).
We do not deny that Mrs.
Crane received some benefit: a purchaser had to pay off the mortgage or at least be willing to take the property subject to the mortgage before Mrs.
Crane could pocket her $2500 in equity.
We do, however, seriously question whether the full amount of nonrecourse debt is an accurate measure of that benefit.
Because, as indicated above, we have serious reservations about the Crane decision, we decline to extend it beyond the facts of that case, and we therefore conclude that the fair market value limitation so "[o]bviously" anticipated by footnote 37 is warranted.
We hold that the fair market value of the property securing a nonrecourse debt limits the extent to which the debt can be included in the amount realized on disposition of the property.
8 REVERSED.
9
