 J. SKELLY WRIGHT , Circuit Judge: This case, involving denial by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC or Commission) of a petition to deny license renewals to eight Los Angeles television stations, 1 presents difficult questions concerning the obligations of public and commercial broadcasters to attempt to meet the programming needs of persons with impaired hearing.
The issues arise under two statutes: the Communications Act, 2 under which the Commission can renew a station's license [**188] only upon a finding that its programming has served the public interest, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 3 which prohibits discrimination against "otherwise qualified" handicapped persons by recipients of federal financial assistance.
Because public television stations are apparently bound by Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act to provide service to "otherwise qualified" handicapped persons, we do not believe that the FCC could find the service of such stations to be adequate to justify renewal without at least inquiring specifically into their efforts to meet the programming needs of the hearing impaired.
Accordingly, we hold that the challenge to the license renewal of public station KCET-TV must be remanded to the Commission for further proceedings.
We conclude, however, that Section 504 does not apply directly to commercial broadcasters.
We therefore hold that the decision of the Commission concerning the seven commercial stations may be upheld, on the basis of both the record compiled below and the Commission's representations of substantial progress in extending the benefits of commercial television to the hearing impaired.
In so doing, however, we recognize that the Commission's statutory obligation to pursue the public interest requires it to protect the interests of the hard of hearing in having meaningful access to commercial broadcasting.
We also note that rulemaking might be a better, fairer, and more effective vehicle for considering how the broadcast industry is required to provide the enjoyment and educational benefits of television to persons with impaired hearing.
Radio has been available to the general public for over half a century, as has television for over a quarter century.
But millions of Americans have lived and died during that time without being able to enjoy radio and television simply because their hearing was impaired.
It is time for the Commission to act realistically to require, in the public interest, that the benefits of television be made available to the hard of hearing now.
I. BACKGROUND A. Statutory Context This case, in which appellants challenge an FCC order denying a petition to deny license renewals to eight Los Angeles television stations, 4 arises against a complex background of federal statutes and administrative action.
The Communications Act of 1934 charges the Federal Communications Commission with granting broadcast licenses and license renewals.
5 The Commission does so pursuant to a general mandate to protect and advance "the public interest, convenience, and necessity."
6 Although this mandate is general, the Commission has in fact interpreted it through the issuance of a number of regulations and guidelines.
These Commission guidelines typically govern decisions about whether to renew broadcast licenses in cases where there is no announced competitor for a license held by the applicant for renewal.
7 Although the statute provides that "[a]ny party in interest may file with the Commission [**189] a petition to deny any application," 8 the Commission need generally hold no hearings unless the petition raises a "substantial and material question of fact" 9 concerning the incumbent licensee's satisfaction of pertinent Commission standards.
Where no question is raised concerning the station's compliance with Commission guidelines, renewal is generally granted without public hearing.
Both the courts and the FCC have construed the "public interest" standard for license awards to include a requirement that broadcasters endeavor to discover and to meet the programming needs of all significant groups within their areas of service.
10 The Commission publishes a list of specific groups whose needs must be "ascertained."
11 At least since 1970 it has urged licensees to make efforts to serve the hearing impaired, 12 a group estimated to include at least 13 million people, nationwide.
13 But the Commission has declined to include the hearing impaired among the groups whose needs must specifically be consulted.
14 Nor has it ever promulgated guidelines requiring entertainment programming for the hard of hearing.
The Commission has, however, insisted that emergency broadcasts must be made accessible to the deaf, 15 and, whenever individual broadcasters have sought Commission approval for innovative service to the hearing impaired, the Commission has given its approval.
16 For example, the Commission in [**190] 1976 adopted rules to permit "closed captioning" for visual display of aural material accompanying television programs.
17 Pursuant to this grant of permission, the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) and two of the commercial networks began in March 1980 to provide a total of up to 20 hours a week of programming captioned by the National Captioning Institute.
18 The FCC has also emphasized in its public pronouncements that "licensees can and will be responsive to the needs of their [hearing impaired] viewers, but it is still the responsibility of each licensee to determine how it can most effectively meet those needs."
19 Although it has recognized that Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 may impose a statutory obligation on public television stations to accommodate at least some of their programming to the needs of the hearing impaired, 20 the FCC has thus far declined to take specific steps to enforce the Act.
21 The Department of Education has been officially designated as the agency to develop guidelines clarifying the specific obligations imposed on public broadcasters by Section 504 .
22 The FCC has indicated [**191] that if any broadcaster should be found by another agency of government to be in violation of Section 504 , it would "consider the effect of that violation upon the licensee's qualifications."
23 But because it is not the agency responsible for enforcement of the Rehabilitation Act, the FCC has stated that it will not attempt to hold broadcasters to any obligations thereunder, at least until the responsible agency has spoken.
24 B. Factual Background Sue Gottfried is a hearing impaired member of the Los Angeles community.
On October 28, 1977, on behalf of herself and others similarly situated, Mrs. Gottfried filed petitions to deny the license renewal applications of eight Los Angeles television stations.
25 In her petitions pertaining to the seven commercial licensees Mrs. Gottfried alleged generally that the stations had failed to ascertain or to meet the needs of the hearing impaired.
She further argued that the stations, as recipients of valuable federal licenses, had failed to satisfy obligations imposed on them by Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
Regarding the public station KCET-TV, Mrs. Gottfried repeated her general claims and arguments, but she also added the specific charge that the station had shown indifference to the needs of the deaf by failing to broadcast, through most of its license term, a captioned version of the ABC Evening News that was made available to it by the Public Broadcasting Service.
26 On September 8, 1978 the FCC denied Mrs. Gottfried's petitions to deny license renewals to the eight stations.
27 The petitions, the Commission said, had "failed to allege specific facts which raised any substantial or material question as to whether a grant of the renewal applications before us would serve the public interest, convenience, and necessity."
28 The FCC based this conclusion on the failure of the petitions to allege violations of any specific Commission standards or guidelines.
The Commission noted that it had no requirement that stations develop demographic data related to the hearing impaired population of a service area, specifically ascertain the needs of the deaf, or utilize captioning or other techniques to make programming accessible to the hard of hearing.
29 The Commission also found that Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act did not apply to the commercial licensees, 30 and it stated that the Department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW) was the appropriate agency to consider whether the public station had violated the Act.
31 Although it said that it would give consideration to any adverse finding that HEW might reach, the Commission denied that a petitioner could raise a "substantial or material" renewal question merely by alleging noncompliance with the Rehabilitation Act or with the national policy expressed by that statute.
The appellants 32 responded to the Commission's order by filing a petition for reconsideration, [**192] in which they alleged, in elaborated form, essentially the same arguments they had made earlier.
33 They also filed supplemental pleadings in which they presented evidence that viewers were not averse to captioned programming and claimed that the Commission was obligated by HEW regulations and by Executive Order to implement Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act.
34 Once again, the Commission dismissed the petition as failing to present a substantial or material question of fact requiring further hearings.
35 Because the petitioners had not effectively challenged the stations' compliance with stated FCC requirements, the Commission held that they had not raised a substantial claim that the licensees' service had failed to satisfy the statutory requirement of being in the public interest.
Pursuant to Section 402 of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. 402 (1976), Mrs. Gottfried appealed the decision of the Commission to this court.
II.
ISSUES ON APPEAL The issues presented in this appeal are complicated by the contested relationship between two statutes, the Communications Act and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
The Rehabilitation Act does not directly impose any enforcement obligation on the FCC.
But the Communications Act does require the FCC to make determinations about the requirements of the "public interest," and appellants argue that the "public interest" standard must be construed to require at least some consideration of the national policy expressed by the Rehabilitation Act and any legal obligations imposed on the stations by Section 504 .
We agree.
Because the parties have assumed that Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act applies to public television stations, 36 we begin by considering the obligation of the FCC to weigh compliance with this standard in a challenge to renewal of a license such as that involved in this case.
This discussion yields the conclusion that the case of the public station must be remanded to the Commission.
We then consider the argument that Section 504 applies to the commercial stations, and conclude that it does not.
Although the Commission may still be obliged to weigh the national policy of the Rehabilitation Act within the public interest standard, the commercial stations themselves have been assigned no direct statutory [**193] obligations to the hearing impaired.
We therefore determine that the Commission has a range of discretion in assessing what commercial stations must do in the public interest, and in consideration of both its expertise and its efforts in the area, we defer to its judgment at this time.
We repeat, however, that in our view television, both public and commercial, should be made available to persons with impaired hearing now.
III.
PUBLIC STATIONS Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 provides: In this case appellants urge that public television station KCET-TV is a recipient of federal financial assistance subject to the statute.
This claim rests on two bases.
First, appellants argue that a broadcast license is itself a valuable commodity constituting "financial assistance" as that term is used under the Rehabilitation Act.
38 Second, appellants argue that KCET-TV, as a "public" or noncommercial educational broadcasting station, is subsidized by congressional appropriations channeled, among other sources, through the National Telecommunications and Information Administration of the Department of Commerce and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
39 In its brief in this court the FCC does not dispute the applicability of Section 504 to public station KCET-TV.
At the time it was the agency responsible for interpretation of the Rehabilitation Act--and thus at a time when its construction would have been due "substantial deference" from a reviewing court 40 --the Department of Health, Education and Welfare determined that Section 504 applies to public broadcasting [**194] stations.
41 The Department of Education, which has now assumed responsibility for developing guidelines applicable to public broadcasters, has apparently accepted this conclusion, 42 and the FCC has indicated a willingness to defer to its judgment. 43 The case of KCET-TV also exhibits incidences of more direct and traditional "Federal financial assistance."
During 1977, the year in which KCET-TV's petition for license renewal was challenged, federal agencies combined to provide the station with $2,298,160--an amount representing roughly 17 percent of its revenues for the year--in restricted program grants.
44 The contributing agencies included the National Institute for Education, which granted $1,814,090; the National Endowment for the Arts, $461,872; the National Endowment for the Humanities, $18,243; and the United States Information Agency, $3,955.
We therefore conclude that Section 504 imposed legal obligations on station KCET-TV during the term of its license preceding the renewal challenge, and we assume that it continues to do so.
There remain, however, important issues concerning the duty of the FCC to define the station's responsibilities under the Rehabilitation Act and to enforce the Act's policies in license renewal proceedings.
The FCC is not the agency primarily responsible for enforcing the Rehabilitation Act.
Nonetheless, appellants argue that the Act's Section 504 reflects a partial congressional definition of the FCC's obligation to serve "the public interest"--in effect, a specification that the FCC must consider compliance with Section 504 's nondiscrimination requirement in determining whether a public broadcaster has satisfied the public interest standard.
45 Second, appellants argue that the FCC is bound to take immediate action to implement Section 504 , at a minimum by bringing its policies to bear in renewal proceedings such as this.
46 The FCC, noting that no guidelines have yet been issued by the Department of Education, takes a different view.
The Commission asserts that it would be unfair to penalize a station in a license renewal proceeding for noncompliance with a statute for which interpretive guidelines were not in existence during the term of the license.
47 Under the special circumstances presented by this case, we agree with appellants that the FCC is obligated to take account of a public broadcaster's legal duties under Section 504 in making its public interest determinations.
Moreover, given the variety of procedural options pursuant to which the FCC could avoid unfair harshness to the broadcaster, we cannot accept that the public television stations need to be regarded by the Commission as free from any enforceable obligations under Section 504 until interpretive guidelines are issued.
A. Section 504 and the Public Interest Standard The FCC is directed to renew broadcast licenses only if it finds that renewal would serve the "public interest, convenience, and necessity."
47 U.S.C. 309(a) (1976).
In construing this standard we [**195] must of course accord substantial deference to the Commission's judgments.
As the Supreme Court has recently observed, "'the weighing of policies under the "public interest" standard is a task that Congress has delegated to the Commission in the first instance.'"
FCC v. WNCN Listeners Guild , 450 U.S. 582, 596 , 101 S.Ct. 1266, 1275 , 67 L.Ed.2d 521 (1981), quoting FCC v. National Citizens Committee for Broadcasting , 436 U.S. 775, 810 , 98 S.Ct. 2096, 2119 , 56 L.Ed.2d 697 (1978).
Yet there remains, under the Communications Act, an inescapable judicial role.
Although the "public interest" standard requires judgments of policy, see FCC v. WNCN Listeners Guild , supra , 450 U.S. at 596 , 101 S.Ct. at 1275 , it also contains an irreducible element of law, see National Broadcasting Co. v. United States , 319 U.S. 190, 224-226 , 63 S.Ct. 997, 1013 , 87 L.Ed. 1344 (1943), which makes judicial review both necessary and possible.
Cf. NAACP v. FPC , 425 U.S. 662, 669 , 96 S.Ct. 1806, 1811 , 48 L.Ed.2d 284 (1976) ("[T]he words 'public interest' in a regulatory statute take meaning from the purposes of the regulatory legislation.").
It is the function of the judiciary to resolve disputed questions of law.
See Internat'l Brhd of Teamsters v. Daniel , 439 U.S. 551, 566 & n.20, 99 S.Ct. 790, 800 & n.20, 58 L.Ed.2d 808 (1979).
In their brief in this court appellants argue that the FCC's "public interest" mandate must be construed to incorporate the national policy of nondiscrimination against the handicapped minority, at least insofar as that policy imposes specific legal obligations under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
We agree.
We begin with the settled proposition that a federal agency, in construing the requirements of the "public interest" under its governing statute, must at least give weight to federal laws and public policies addressed to similar purposes.
See, e. g. , McLean Trucking Co. v. United States , 321 U.S. 67, 79-80 , 64 S.Ct. 370, 376 , 88 L.Ed. 544 (1944) (Interstate Commerce Commission obliged to weigh policies implicit in Sherman Act); Northern Natural Gas Co. v. FPC , 399 F.2d 953, 961 (D.C.Cir.1968) (Federal Power Commission, operating under public interest mandate, is "obliged to make findings related to the pertinent antitrust policies, draw conclusions from the findings, and weigh these conclusions along with other important public interest considerations"); City of Pittsburgh v. FPC , 237 F.2d 741, 754 (D.C.Cir.1956) (FPC obligation to consider antitrust factors not alleviated by fact that antitrust enforcement generally committed to Attorney General); Johnston Broadcasting Co. v. FCC , 175 F.2d 351, 357 (D.C.Cir.1949); see also FMC v. Aktiebolaget Svenska Amerika Linien , 390 U.S. 238, 244 , 88 S.Ct. 1005, 1009 , 19 L.Ed.2d 1071 (1968) (antitrust laws are tool by which regulatory agency gives "understandable content to the broad statutory concept of the 'public interest'"); National Broadcasting Co. v. United States , supra , 319 U.S. at 222-224 , 63 S.Ct. at 1011 .
It makes no difference in such cases that Congress may have vested primary responsibility for enforcement of a statutory policy in another agency.
As the Supreme Court has made clear, the grant of enforcement power to one organ of government does not free others to ignore national laws and policies until such time as violations have been proved in the courts.
See, e. g. , McLean Trucking Co. v. United States , supra , 321 U.S. at 79-80 , 64 S.Ct. at 376 ; National Broadcasting Co. v. United States , supra , 319 U.S. at 222-224 , 63 S.Ct. at 1011 .
By its passage of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 Congress placed public stations under a legal obligation to consider and attempt to serve the interests of the nation's hearing impaired minority.
Surely the policy of this statute falls well within the broad purposes of the Communications Act.
As the Supreme Court has recognized, the "public interest" standard established by the Communications Act imposes on the FCC an affirmative "obligation to ensure that its licensees' programming fairly reflects the tastes of minority groups."
NAACP v. FPC , supra , 425 U.S. at 670 n.7, 96 S.Ct. at 1812 n.7.
[**196] Following Congress' decision that recipients of federal assistance must extend their programs to otherwise qualified members of handicapped minorities, settled legal principles compel the conclusion that the FCC must, at a minimum, weigh this congressional policy in making "public interest" determinations.
It is unreasonable to believe that a public station could give service cognizable as being "in the public interest" without at least making efforts to satisfy its statutory obligations.
48 In holding as we do, we do little more than recall the FCC to a position it has itself asserted in the past.
The Commission has frequently recognized its obligation under the public interest standard to protect the interests of minority groups previously excluded from full access to broadcast programming.
See, e. g. , Nat'l Organization for Women, NYC Chapter v. FCC , 555 F.2d 1002, 1017 (D.C.Cir.1977) (Commission considers "the employment practices of its licensees to the extent those practices affect the obligation of the licensee to provide programming that 'fairly reflects the tastes and viewpoints of minority groups' and to the extent those practices raise questions about the character qualifications of the licensee ") (emphasis in original; footnotes omitted); Nondiscrimination in the Employment Policies and Practices of Broadcast Licensees , 60 FCC2d 222 (1976); Nondiscrimination in Employment Practices of Broadcast Licensees , 13 FCC2d 766 (1968).
Although the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission was given primary responsibility for enforcement of the discrimination prohibitions of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, the FCC recognized its independent responsibility, pursuant to the public interest standard, to carry out the Act's policy.
Its authority to do so has been recognized by the courts.
See, e. g. , NAACP v. FPC , supra , 425 U.S. at 670 n.7, 96 S.Ct. at 1812 n.7; Nat'l Organization for Women, NYC Chapter v. FCC , supra , 555 F.2d at 1015-1020 .
And where the Commission has lagged in accepting its responsibility, this court has not hesitated to direct it to do so. See, e. g. , Black Broadcasting Coalition of Richmond v. FCC , 556 F.2d 59 (D.C.Cir.1977) ( per curiam ); Office of Communication of United Church of Christ v. FCC , 359 F.2d 994 (D.C.Cir.1966) [**197] .
We do not shirk our duty in the present case. B. Required Procedures In their brief in this court appellants have asked us to remand the license renewal application of public station KCET-TV for a public hearing and other appropriate proceedings by the FCC.
49 We regard this as the proper disposition.
The FCC has objected that KCET-TV complied with all existing Commission rules, and that there is thus "no substantial and material question of fact" to be determined before final action on the application.
50 But, as this court has held before, "Under Section 309(e) the Commission must set a renewal application for hearing where 'a substantial and material question of fact is presented or the Commission for any reason is unable to make the finding' that the public interest, convenience, and necessity will be served by the license renewal."
Office of Communication of United Church of Christ v. FCC , supra , 359 F.2d at 1007 (emphasis in opinion of Burger, J.; citation omitted).
Finding that Congress must be understood to have prescribed that the "public interest" encompasses at least the legal interests of the nation's hearing impaired minority, we do not believe that a Commission decision in which this factor has not been weighed can escape condemnation as "arbitrary, capricious, [or] an abuse of discretion."
51 As the Supreme Court held in Citizens to Preserve Overton Park, Inc. v. Volpe , 401 U.S. 402, 416 , 91 S.Ct. 814, 823 , 28 L.Ed.2d 136 (1972), satisfaction of this standard requires, at a minimum, "consideration of all relevant factors."
The task of weighing the interests of the hearing impaired is not an easy one, and we do not presume to intrude into the Commission's range of discretion in this difficult area.
It is appropriate, however, for us to respond to some of the concerns that the Commission has raised on this appeal.
These concerns arise primarily from the ambiguity of the legislative policy expressed in Section 504 .
In construing this provision the responsible administrative agencies have concluded that Congress intended recipients of federal funds to make "reasonable accommodations" to provide service to handicapped persons, see 45 C.F.R. 84.12 (1977) (HEW guidelines), current version 34 C.F.R. 104.12 (1980) (Department of Education guidelines), and the courts have generally accepted this construction, see, e. g. , United Handicapped Federation v. Andre , 558 F.2d 413 (8th Cir. 1977) (cause remanded to District Court for application of guidelines); Lloyd v. Regional Transportation Authority , 548 F.2d 1277 (7th Cir.1977) (same).
But, as the Supreme Court acknowledged in Southeastern Community College v. Davis , 442 U.S. 397, 412 , 99 S.Ct. 2361, 2370 , 60 L.Ed.2d 980 (1979), the line between lawful refusal to extend affirmative action and illegal discrimination will not always be clear.
Emphasizing the difficulty of line-drawing in this area, the Commission pleads that it has no choice but to stay its hand.
The Department of Education is currently engaged in preparation of interpretive guidelines construing the obligations that Section 504 imposes on public broadcasters.
52 Pending completion of those guidelines the FCC has said that it has no basis for assessing compliance with the statute, [**198] and that there would be nothing for it to consider in the public hearing requested by appellants.
We do not agree.
In pursuing the public policy represented by Section 504 it is not the function of the FCC to adjudicate law violations, or, indeed, to regard itself as bound strictly by the specific dictates of the Rehabilitation Act or interpretive guidelines issued thereunder.
See, e. g. , California v. FPC , 369 U.S. 482, 490 , 82 S.Ct. 901, 906 , 8 L.Ed.2d 54 (1962); United States v. Radio Corp. of America , 358 U.S. 334, 350 , 79 S.Ct. 457, 466 , 3 L.Ed.2d 354 (1959).
The Commission's responsibility is rather to effectuate the underlying national policy of providing federally assisted programs, including public television, to handicapped persons, such as the deaf, who are capable of benefitting from them.
In effectuating a policy that is currently framed in general terms only, the FCC must of course proceed with sensitivity to the situation of its licensees.
In its review of KCET-TV's renewal application the Commission can appropriately consider the station's uncertainty about the precise requirements imposed on it by Section 504 .
It would indeed be unfair to insist on strict compliance with a standard developed after the fact, and we expect the FCC neither to develop nor to apply a fully formulated set of guidelines at this time.
Nonetheless, it is clear to us that the absence of interpretive guidelines--either now or during the station's license term--could not justify a licensee's disregard of or indifference to the policies of the statute.
Eight years after the passage of the Rehabilitation Act, we cannot accept that a public station still has no duty to make reasonable efforts to serve the handicapped, or that this duty cannot be enforced, in an agency proceeding, by an intended beneficiary of the statute.
The Commission must therefore proceed immediately to inquire at least into the station's good faith, as manifest in its efforts to provide service in accord with the legislative policy goals of Section 504 .
The Commission has also argued that it would be unfair for the issues at the heart of this case to be raised for the first time in a license renewal proceeding.
53 During the term of its license KCET-TV lacked clear standards defining the level of service required by Section 504 .
And in the absence of prior notice of the FCC's renewal policy, the Commission argues, it would be wrong to penalize a station for its shortcomings.
Our answer to this argument is implicit in what we have said before.
Properly conducted, an FCC inquiry will impose no unreasonable burden on the station.
Focusing primarily on good faith efforts to interpret and follow statutory policies, it should not enforce numerical criteria on a retroactive basis, but instead assess the station's willingness--as measured against its capacity and its viewers' needs--to provide programming for the aurally handicapped.
As the Commission itself has asserted repeatedly, the predominant concern in a license renewal case may be "prospective, seeking to lead a licensee who has not possessed an adequate program in the past to adopt policies ensuring" better performance in the future.
Nat'l Organization for Women, NYC Chapter v. FCC , supra , 555 F.2d at 1017 , quoting Nat'l Broadcasting Co. , 58 FCC2d 419, 422 (1976); see Bilingual Bicultural Coalition of Mass Media, Inc. v. FCC , 595 F.2d 621, 628 & n. 24 (D.C.Cir.1978) ( en banc ).
Consistent with that concern, in a case such as this the FCC may choose among a variety of dispositional alternatives, including short-term or conditional license renewal, as well as standard renewal or denial.
We intimate--because we hold--no a priori preference among them.
The ultimate decision is obviously not for us, but for the Commission, 54 with [**199] its special expertise concerning what can reasonably be expected of a public broadcaster within the context of current technology and current needs.
We recognize the indefiniteness with which our prescriptions are stated.
The guidelines promised by the Department of Education will hopefully resolve many of the uncertainties confronting the stations, the Commission, and this court.
But we reiterate our strong view that no guidelines are needed to identify the outlines of Congress' policy aims.
The Commission--like the stations--must accept its duty now.
There are many ways in which the policy of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act might be implemented.
We hold only that it cannot be ignored.
IV.
COMMERCIAL STATIONS A. Section 504 and Federal Licenses Appellants argue that the seven commercial stations involved in this case are also bound by Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, and that the FCC must therefore assess their compliance with the statute in considering applications for license renewal.
We are unable to accept this argument in the terms advanced by appellants.
Section 504 directly imposes legal obligations only on recipients of "Federal financial assistance."
Appellants correctly argue that a license to broadcast on the public airwaves is a commodity of great value.
55 But this does not resolve the question of congressional intent: Did Congress intend broadcast licenses to count as "financial assistance" within the meaning of Section 504 ?
We are unable to conclude that it did.
The first reason arises from the statute's legislative heritage.
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act was expressly modeled on Section 601 of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
56 And although the legislative [**200] history of Section 504 is sparse, we find ample evidence to conclude that Congress did not intend Title VI to reach the recipients of licenses from the FCC.
This evidence includes congressional hearings and floor debates, in which various speakers interpreted the language as applying to "funds" 57 and "public moneys out of the Federal Treasury," 58 and none apparently referred to federal licenses.
59 It also encompasses authoritative interpretations of the Civil Rights Act developed by the Attorney General both before and after the measure's passage.
In anticipation of the congressional debate Congressman Celler asked the Justice Department to supply a list of federal programs and activities that would fall within the ambit of Title VI.
60 Duly prepared by the Deputy Attorney General, the list that appeared in the Congressional Record of June 10, 1964 included no reference to the FCC or to any other government program involving issuance of federal licenses.
61 The Justice Department reiterated its interpretation after the Civil Rights Act had become law.
Designated to develop interpreting regulations, the Department undertook to aid all affected agencies to formulate standards to implement Title VI.
Yet it found no need for the issuance of regulations by the FCC.
62 The Justice Department's contemporaneous construction of the statutory term "Federal financial assistance" deserves substantial weight in this court, both because of the Department's close involvement in the drafting of the Civil Rights Act and because of its status as the agency responsible for "setting the [Act's] machinery in motion."
Udall v. Tallman , 380 U.S. 1, 16 , 85 S.Ct. 792, 801 , 13 L.Ed.2d.
616 (1965) (citation omitted); E. I. dupont de Nemours & Co. v. Train , 430 U.S. 112, 134-135 , 97 S.Ct. 965, 978 , 51 L.Ed.2d 204 (1977).
The agencies responsible for implementation of the Rehabilitation Act have followed [**201] the pattern of construction established under the Civil Rights Act.
They too have regarded broadcast and other licenses as falling outside the statutory meaning of the term "Federal financial assistance."
Neither HEW nor the Department of Education has thought it necessary to issue regulations applicable to commercial broadcasters.
63 And regulations issued by the Justice Department, which has recently been designated by Executive Order as the agency responsible for coordinating federal efforts to implement the Rehabilitation Act, 64 hold specifically that federal licensees are not bound by Section 504 .
65 We note also that the Justice Department's interpretation accords with the FCC's construction of the Communications Act of 1934, under which licenses are not regarded as establishing property rights, 66 even though licensees do enjoy a limited renewal expectancy.
67 B. Public Interest Obligations In denying appellants' claim that the FCC committed reversible error in failing to hold the seven commercial stations to specific obligations under Section 504 , we are not unmindful that the FCC functions under a statutory obligation to make findings about the public interest, and that the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 may evidence a general national policy of considering the concerns of the deaf within the public interest rubric, 68 even where direct legal obligations [**202] are not imposed.
Indeed, the FCC itself has sometimes suggested that it could not, consistent with its statutory mandate, ignore the wants and needs of minorities that national policies aim to protect.
69 Because of the national policy of extending increased opportunities to the hearing impaired, we believe that some accommodations for the hard of hearing are required of commercial stations, under the general obligation of licensees to serve "the public interest, convenience, and necessity."
But in the absence of specific statutory obligations directed at the commercial broadcasters, 70 we conclude that it would not be appropriate for us to delineate standards for the commercial stations or to require specific Commission procedures at this time.
In its brief in this court the Commission rehearses a series of efforts that it has encouraged and licensed from 1970 to the present.
71 It represents that it is moving forward in this area, and that it will continue to do so. 72 Recognizing that the Commission possesses special competence in weighing the factors of technological feasibility [**203] and economic viability that the concept of the public interest must embrace, 73 we defer today to its judgment.
However, should the Commission fail to fulfill its obligations to the nation's hearing impaired minority, as we have indicated above, 74 judicial action might become appropriate at a later date.
In consideration of the Commission's representations of good faith and active concern, together with the record on which it based its decisions to renew the licenses of the seven commercial stations, we conclude that the action of the Commission with respect to the commercial broadcasters should be affirmed.
V. CONCLUSION For the reasons stated in this opinion, those portions of the Commission's order denying appellants' application to deny license renewal to public station KCET-TV are vacated and remanded to the Commission for further proceedings, and those portions of the order that concern the seven commercial stations are affirmed.
So ordered .
