 ALBERT V. BRYAN , Senior Circuit Judge: Plaintiff-appellee, Charles V. Bowen, on February 21, 1976 was indefinitely suspended, without pay, from employment with appellant United States Postal Service (Service or appellant) 1 in Lynchburg, Virginia, for an alleged assault upon a co-employee during an altercation with him.
At that time Bowen was a member of the American Postal Workers Union, AFL-CIO, (Union or appellant).
It was the recognized collective bargaining agent of the Service employees under a written national contract and the unit with which Bowen filed a grievance challenging his suspension.
Refused reinstatement, Bowen brought this action, December 14, 1976, in the United States District Court for the Western District of Virginia for damages against the Service 2 and the Union.
3 The complaint charged the former with wrongful suspension and the latter with breach of its duty to fairly represent Bowen's collective bargaining interests through conference, arbitration or otherwise.
The District Court submitted to a special trial jury interrogatories which in substance embodied the complaint and the traversing defenses of the Union.
The question of the right or wrong of Bowen's suspension by the Service was also posed in these interrogatories to the same jury, but then sitting as an advisory panel.
4 The responses of the trial jury, resting on a preponderance of the evidence as instructed by the Court, upheld all of Bowen's claims against both defendants.
The findings and conclusions of the trial judge on the advisory verdict avouched the rightfulness of Bowen's claims against the Service.
Approving these verdicts, findings and conclusions, the District Court entered judgment as follows: (1) That the suspension of Bowen by the Service was in actuality a discharge; (2) That the Service discharged Bowen without cause, in abrogation of the collective bargaining agreement, and that the conduct of both the Union and the Service was in "reckless and callous disregard" of Bowen's rights; (3) That Bowen is entitled to reinstatement to his former employment with the Service and to reimbursement for his resulting loss of earnings and fringe benefits from February 21, 1976 (date of discharge) to December 20, 1978 (date of trial) in the amount of $47,000.00, as fixed by the jury, plus the sum of $5,954.12 added by the trial judge for similar Josses between December 20, 1978 and April 11, 1979 (hearing on post trial motions); (4) That if Bowen's grievance had been arbitrated by the Union as provided in the collective agreement he could have been reinstated by approximately August 1977 but, because of his discharge and despite his repeated efforts, he has been unable to obtain other employment since February 21, 1976; (5) That Bowen's wage-loss of $47,000.00 should be indemnified by the Union to the amount of $17,000.00 and by the Service in the sum of $30,000.00, and the Service alone should reimburse him for the further loss of $5,954.12; (6) That Bowen recover punitive damages from the Service and the Union; 5 and (7) That counsel fees and court costs be awarded Bowen against the Service and the Union.
ERRORS ASSIGNED ON APPEAL Errors in the judgment's monetary adjudications are pressed by the appellants.
However, upon study of each of them we hold them insufficient in law or fact to warrant modification of the judgment, save in the following instance: I. As Bowen's compensation was at all times payable only by the Service, reimbursement of his lost earnings continued to be the obligation of the Service exclusively.
Hence, no portion of the deprivations--47,000.00 plus $5,954.12--was chargeable to the Union.
Cf. Vaca v. Sipes , 386 U.S. 171, 195 , 87 S.Ct. 903, 919 , 17 L.Ed.2d 842 (1967).
6 As well, too, the Service must comply with the final mandate of the District Court: II.
Error is ascribed to the reception at trial of the testimony of Gladys Wilkes Johnson, called to the stand by Bowen, as an expert on labor relations and arbitration, to give evidence upon the factors essential and requisite to constitute fair representation by a union.
We see nothing amiss in the allowance of this proof and, furthermore, even if error, it would be but harmless, not justifying a reversal of the District Court.
Fed.R.Civ.P. 61 .
At all events the testimony was admissible for its relevance.
The fundamental accusation by Bowen was that the Union "had breached its duty of fair representation."
Johnson, speaking to the instantly proven facts, testified that the Union's conduct evinced a prejudicial indifference and irreverence to this obligation.
In her opinion, the Union should have sent Bowen's claim to arbitration, if he was to be assured of a fair hearing on the validity of his termination by the Service.
Next, she qualified as one well informed upon the factual considerations integral in a union's duties.
Before permitting Johnson as an expert to give an opinion on what constitutes fair representation by a union, the District Judge permitted close and in-depth questioning into her background and knowledge of the subject.
This exploration revealed that she had participated in the preparation and presentation of arbitrations for almost 20 years.
In this period she had been active as a member and president of a local union of 430 members.
In an attempt to impeach this qualification, opposing counsel observed in cross-examination that the Union in this case had a membership of several thousand and so was not comparably within her experience.
Overruling the objection the presiding judge commented: Furthermore, in his charge to the jury he ensured the appellants full protection against intrusion upon the privilege of a defendant not to be subjected to the surmise of a witness.
The instruction rigidly narrowed the evaluation to be given the Johnson evidence by the jury: The admissibility vel non of the testimony was to be resolved by the District Judge; it was "within the broad discretion of the trial judge and his action is to be sustained unless manifestly erroneous."
Boleski v. American Export Lines, Inc. , 385 F.2d 69, 71 (4th Cir. 1967).
Rule 702, Federal Rules of Evidence confirms the propriety of such testimony in trial: For the reasons herein recited, the judgment of the District Court will be affirmed throughout, except in regard to the error discussed in section I, infra , with respect to which the action will be remanded for amendment of the judgment consistently with this opinion.
Affirmed in Part; Reversed in Part; and Remanded.
