 GARZA , Circuit Judge: Doctor Edwin Hyde brought this action to challenge his exclusion from the medical staff of East Jefferson General Hospital in Metairie, Louisiana.
He sought a declaratory judgment that the actions of the Hospital District and its Board of Directors violated Section 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. 1 ; the Due Process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment; Sections 51:122 and 123 of the Louisiana antitrust law; and Section 46:1058 of the state enabling legislation under which the Hospital District was created.
Hyde also prayed for the issuance of an injunction ordering defendants to appoint him to the hospital's medical staff.
Following a trial on the merits, the court below dismissed the suit.
In this appeal, plaintiff concentrates his attack on the Sherman Act portion of the district court judgment.
Today, we reverse the court's judgment, for reasons stated herein.
513 F.Supp.
532 .
Doctor Hyde is a board certified anesthesiologist who practices in Jefferson Parish, Louisiana.
In July, 1977, he submitted an application for admission to the East Jefferson Hospital medical staff.
New staff members are ultimately selected by the East Jefferson Hospital Board.
According to the language of La.R.S.
46:1058 concerning the selection of new medical staff, "[s]uch appointments shall be made upon the recommendations of the physicians who are authorized to practice within the hospital."
Appellant's application was therefore initially sent to the medical staff, which functions as a separate entity from the hospital.
First, the Credentials Committee reviewed Hyde's medical qualifications and submitted a favorable recommendation to the Medical Staff Executive Committee.
That committee then reviewed the application and recommended to the Hospital Board that appellant's application be approved.
In spite of favorable recommendations from both medical staff committees, the Board voted to deny staff privileges to Dr. Hyde.
This action was occasioned by the fact that the hospital had an exclusive contract with Roux and Associates, a professional medical corporation, to provide anesthesia services.
1 Under the terms of this contract, the anesthesiologist determines the fee for the services he provides based upon the complexity and length of the operation performed.
Patients are billed jointly for the anesthesia services provided by the doctor and by the hospital.
The hospital deducts eight percent for bad debts, charity and other write-offs from the gross receipts of the department and then remits fifty percent of the remaining sum to Roux and Associates.
The provision of anesthesia services in each of East Jefferson Hospital's thirteen operating rooms is, in large part, undertaken by nurse anesthetists.
At least one hospital-employed nurse anesthetist is assigned to each room.
The four anesthesiologists employed by Roux and Associates travel between the rooms as they are needed for supervision.
Anesthesia is routinely administered by the nurse anesthetist.
An anesthesiologist remains with a patient only for more complicated operations.
Appellees aver that the system employed is in the best interest of quality patient care.
The monitoring of specialized equipment and supervision of nurses can best be handled, in their estimation, by the closed group policy.
This closed group policy also gives the hospital the continuous twenty-four hour a day coverage that is crucial in the event of an emergency.
2 Other arguments made to justify the policy are that it facilitates the use of operating rooms since no waiting for outside anesthesiologists is necessary and that it wisely allows the responsibility for development and management of the department to be placed upon one individual with legal obligations to the hospital.
Finally, the appellees assert that the closed group policy permits them to more closely monitor the professional standards employed by the department members.
After a trial on the merits, the district court ordered this suit dismissed.
In the corresponding opinion, the court rejected a per se in favor of a rule of reason analysis of this case, stating in the alternative that plaintiff could not prevail on a per se analysis because he had not made the necessary demonstration that the hospital "dominated" the market for its services.
The court held that relief was unavailable under a rule of reason analysis because the anticompetitive effects of the closed group policy were few and far outweighed by the many benefits to patient care.
On appeal, Hyde argues that: (1) the tying arrangement involved is not immune from per se liability solely because of the professional nature of the services involved; (2) the district court erred in holding that the defendant hospital must be shown to have dominant power in the tying product market; and 3) the court incorrectly defined the relevant geographic market area for the tying product.
3 Tying Arrangement A tying arrangement is "an agreement by a party to sell one product but only on the condition that the buyer also purchases a different (or tied) product " Northern Pacific Ry. v. United States , 356 U.S. 1 , 78 S.Ct. 514 , 2 L.Ed.2d 545 (1958).
The existence of a tying arrangement in this case has never been seriously disputed by appellees, since it is clear that users of the hospital's operating rooms (the tying product) are also compelled to purchase the hospital's chosen anesthesia service (the tied product).
It is also clear that we are dealing with two distinct services which a buyer should be able to obtain separately.
Our inquiry does not end here; tying arrangements are only proscribed by the Sherman Act when they exhibit the following four characteristics: Bob Maxfield, Inc. v. American Motors Corp. , 637 F.2d 1033, 1037 (5th Cir. 1981).
The United States Supreme Court recognized many years ago that "the vice of tying arrangements lies in the use of economic power in one market to restrict competition on the merits in another, regardless of the source from which the power is derived and whether the power takes the form of a monopoly or not."
Northern Pacific Ry. v. United States , 356 U.S. at 11 , 78 S.Ct. at 521 .
The district judge ruled against appellant on precisely this point.
He found that appellant had failed to demonstrate that the hospital dominated the market for its services.
However, as the following language from the United States Supreme Court's opinion in Northern Pacific Ry. v. United States , supra , demonstrates, market domination is not required: Id. at 11 , 78 S.Ct. at 521 .
Although appellant is correct in his assessment of the economic power necessary to sustain a finding of an illegal tying arrangement, the court's imperfect definition of the relevant geographic market for the hospital's services would prevent him from succeeding on this element, even when a less stringent economic power standard is applied.
The court below made the following finding about the relevant geographic market area: Record on Appeal, vol. 2, at 246-47.
The court applied a traditional method of economic analysis in this case, recognizing that surgeons have the option of admitting their patients to other hospitals and that patients have a similar right to go to another hospital if they are at all dissatisfied with the anesthesia service offered at East Jefferson Hospital.
The contract at issue here involved only one hospital out of at least twenty in the area.
Under the analysis applied to a truly competitive market, appellant has failed to prove an illegal tying arrangement.
In U. S. Steel v. Fortner Enterprises , 429 U.S. 610 , 97 S.Ct. 861 , 51 L.Ed.2d 80 (1977), the Supreme Court framed the inquiry as Id. at 620-21 , 97 S.Ct. at 867-68 (footnotes omitted).
Not only the court defined market power standard, but also the area within which the court finds that power operates, determine the extent of the hospital's actual power.
If both patient and surgeon are free to go to any one of a large number of competent institutions, from whence, appellees ask, does the hospital derive the power to force the tied product upon consumers?
The foregoing analysis assumes that the health care industry functions as a competitive market in the same sense as the industries involved in the plethora of other tying cases and should be subject to the same standards.
4 This is not correct.
Several market imperfections in the health care industry favor public, non-profit entities like East Jefferson Hospital.
First, the prevalence of third party payment of bills eliminates a patient's incentive to compare the relative cost effectiveness of competing hospitals.
A second market imperfection is the lack of complete information regarding the quality of medical care offered.
Since a patient cannot realistically compare the quality of medical care, he is likely to purchase his medical care from a non-profit entity that has no apparent profit motive to cut quality.
It is not surprising that these factors lead patients to select the hospital closest to home, a preference which the court below noted: Record on Appeal, vol. 2, at 247-48.
The fact that patients tend to choose hospitals by location rather than price or quality, means that the geographical market area for each hospital is much smaller than the district court found. In this case, the court below, while recognizing in one breath patients' preference for hospitals close to home, required appellant to show the economic power of the hospital in a large market area which includes at least twenty other hospitals.
We cannot reconcile the judge's findings here; we conclude, therefore, that the judge erred when he defined the geographical market area.
5 Since nearly one-third of the patients from the entire East Jefferson Area go to East Jefferson Hospital, we hold that the hospital does have sufficient market power in the tying market to coerce purchase of the tied product.
The propriety of holding that the relevant geographical market area is the East Bank of Jefferson Parish is further shown by the limitation placed on the East Jefferson Hospital Board by state law to serve only the East Bank of Jefferson Parish.
The Hospital Board is directed by La.R.S.
46:1055 "[t]o represent the public interest in providing hospital and medical care in the district ."
In the course of presenting his case that the exclusive contract between the hospital and Roux and Associates violates the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, Dr. Hyde pointed out a number of "anticompetitive" effects that flow from the agreement.
Basic to a discussion of these effects is an understanding of the manner in which the specialty of anesthesiology is practiced.
Although the specialty of anesthesiology is indeed a very important and demanding one, the anesthesiologist is only involved in the medical decision-making process after the initial decision between patient and surgeon that surgery is the indicated course of treatment.
6 It is not surprising, therefore, that an anesthesiologist is normally selected by the surgeon, rather than the patient, based on familiarity gained through a working relationship.
Obviously, the surgeons who practice at East Jefferson Hospital do not gain familiarity with any anesthesiologists other than Roux and Associates.
Dr. Hyde argues that his is an especially egregious case because he has a more personal relationship with a great number of his patients than many anesthesiologists.
This is because he specializes in obstetric anesthesiology and, more particularly, the administration of epidural anesthetics.
The exclusive contract, therefore, prohibits patients as well as surgeons from selecting him.
Another twist which is important to an understanding of the specialty is that more than in any other medical specialty, anesthesiologists have been confronted with the growth of a paraprofessional counterpart--the anesthetist.
Herein lies the actual basis for the hospital's actions in this case. 7 While it is true that the tying of anesthesia services to operating rooms in the instant case did not lead to a higher charge for anesthesia services, it accomplished just as dramatic an effect by increasing the hospital's profit.
The hospital realizes a substantial profit from its practice of supplementing a small contract group of anesthesiologists with a much larger group of lower priced anesthetists.
Furthermore, this practice lacks candor; the patient is not informed that he will be billed for the services of an anesthesiologist who may have had very little contact with his case. 8 The exclusive contract spawns a number of anticompetitive effects.
9 First, the tie prevents anesthesiologists from entering that part of the anesthesia services market which the hospital controls.
This prohibition of competition not only serves indirectly to artificially limit the number of anesthesiologists in the area, but, more importantly, it reduces the incentive for improving or initiating techniques or procedures.
Quality is lowered by this restraint while at the same time the hospital's profit, as demonstrated above, is raised.
In the instant case, there was also testimony that the profit motive caused the hospital to hire nurse anesthetists in place of needed anesthesiologists, a practice which dilutes the professional coverage available.
Secondly, the tie eliminates the surgeon or patient's choice of anesthesiologist at this hospital.
Since one goal of antitrust law is to allow the consumer to make buying decisions without being subject to economic coercion, this anticompetitive effect is significant in a market where location tends to govern the choice of hospital.
10 Despite the per se characterization of this arrangement, appellees maintain that the business justifications for the contract should insulate them from liability.
This Court has recognized such a limited defense in tying arrangement cases, but appellees misstate its scope.
An illegal tying arrangement will never be excused if there is a less restrictive way to accomplish the end which the business justification purports to serve.
Carpa, Inc. v. Ward Foods, Inc. , 536 F.2d 39, 47 (5th Cir. 1976).
The hospital's justifications for the contract must be examined in this light.
A major justification for the contract--to insure continuous coverage--must be eliminated because Dr. Roux testified that he would provide twenty-four hour a day service without a contract.
The argument that the contract facilitates the use of operating rooms must also be rejected, since appellees are unable to demonstrate why there is more lag time when additional anesthesiologists are permitted to practice at the hospital.
Similarly, the business justification based on the use of specialized equipment and nurse supervision must also fall since appellees fail to successfully bear the burden of demonstrating the superior ability of the closed group in this regard.
Any anesthesiologist who sought to practice at this hospital would still have to be approved by the medical staff.
This procedure was set up, after all, to screen out the incompetent doctors unable to handle such tasks.
Monitoring of the professional competence of the anesthesiologists, another asserted business justification, can be accomplished by the much less restrictive means of relying upon the medical staff, which is already set up to provide this service.
The need to place the responsibility for development and management of the department upon one individual can also be accomplished without an exclusive contract.
In sum, appellees have failed to provide this Court with one reason for the exclusive contract which could not be resolved by a much less drastic solution.
Per Se Liability Although this practice must be properly characterized as an illegal tying arrangement, appellees argue for a rejection of the stringent per se rule of liability traditionally applied in such cases.
As justification for this departure from established precedent, they assert that since the judiciary has had little antitrust experience in the health care industry, a rule of reason approach is preferable.
11 They also contend that the professional nature of the services mandates a rejection of the rigid per se rule.
The Supreme Court's recent opinion in Arizona v. Maricopa County Medical Society , U.S. , 102 S.Ct. 2466 , 73 L.Ed.2d 48 (1982), however, forecloses both arguments.
That decision dealt with the per se rule as applied to price-fixing in the health care industry; its rationale is equally applicable to tying arrangements.
12 Goldfarb v. Virginia State Bar 421 U.S. 773, 788 95 S.Ct. 2004, 2013 44 L.Ed.2d 572 National Society of Professional Engineers v. United States 435 U.S. 679, 696 98 S.Ct. 1355, 1367 55 L.Ed.2d 637 Goldfarb Professional Engineers per se per se U. S. v.] Socony-Vacuum [Oil Co. 310 U.S. 150 60 S.Ct. 811 84 L.Ed. 1129 310 U.S., at 222 60 S.Ct. at 843 id., at 220 60 S.Ct. at 843 per se Socony-Vacuum id., at 221 60 S.Ct. at 843 per se per se Northern Pac. R. Co. v. United States supra [356 U.S.] at 5 78 S.Ct. at 518 102 S.Ct. at 2475-77 .
Similarly unpersuasive to the Supreme Court in Arizona v. Maricopa County was defendant's principal argument that the agreements should be immune from per se liability because of the procompetitive justifications therefor, an argument which is urged strenuously in this appeal.
13 The asserted procompetitive justifications for the exclusive contract between the hospital and Roux and Associates are identical to the business reasons which were proposed to justify the contract.
The following quote demonstrates why the procompetitive justifications offered by appellees do not warrant a departure from the per se rule.
per se 102 S.Ct. at 2477 (footnote omitted).
Conclusion Inasmuch as we declare that this exclusive contract creates an illegal tying arrangement, we must also grant the requested injunction and permit Dr. Hyde to practice his chosen profession.
The medical staff at East Jefferson Hospital highly recommended that he be granted staff privileges.
14 The refusal of the hospital board to grant staff privileges was based on the existence of the exclusive contract with Roux and Associates.
This opinion does not test the limits of access to staff privileges.
Certainly, the staff size of each hospital is bounded by legitimate concerns of overcrowding, overtaxing of hospital personnel and resources, and the consequent decline in quality of patient care.
In the instant case, however, it was not the size of the department which concerned the hospital board, but the profit which the current structure generated.
In addition, the concerns which allegedly led to the implementation of the exclusive contract can be addressed by much less restrictive alternatives.
They furnish an illusory basis for depriving a physician of the right to practice his profession.
For the reasons set forth above, the district court's judgment in this matter is reversed.
REVERSED.
