 WILKEY , Circuit Judge: This case highlights the tension created by the intersection of a criminal defendant's double jeopardy right to avoid the rigors and embarrassment of an unnecessary second trial and the long-standing rule that a criminal defendant has no constitutional right to an appeal.
Because the present appeal does not fit within the scope of our appellate jurisdiction, we hold that the defendant cannot appeal the trial court's double jeopardy ruling at this time even though he may be required needlessly to endure the strains of a second trial.
I. Background Appellant, Robert D.H.
Richardson, was indicted for conspiracy to distribute a controlled substance 1 and for two counts of distribution of a controlled substance. 2 His motion for a judgment of acquittal on the ground that the government had failed to produce legally sufficient evidence was denied both at the close of the government's evidence and immediately before submission of the case to the jury.
The jury acquitted on one of the two distribution counts but was unable to reach a verdict on the conspiracy and remaining distribution counts.
The court declared a mistrial and scheduled retrial, whereupon appellant renewed his motion for judgment of acquittal, and in addition moved to bar retrial on the basis of former jeopardy.
This appeal was taken from the denial of those motions.
It is important at the outset to understand the nature of Richardson's double jeopardy claim.
Contrary to the dissent's implication, 3 Richardson does not claim that the jury's failure to reach a verdict bars retrial.
Instead, citing Burks v. United States , 4 in which the Supreme Court held that a criminal defendant could not be retried after an appellate court determined that the evidence presented at his first trial was legally insufficient, he contends that " no matter what the jury did [he] cannot be retried since the evidence was insufficient to submit to the jury in the first instance ."
5 Thus, Richardson's double jeopardy claim is based entirely on his contention that the evidence at the first trial was legally insufficient.
Since the trial court ruled that the evidence presented at the first trial was sufficient, Richardson's double jeopardy claim has meaning only if that ruling can be overturned.
Our ability to rule on Richardson's double jeopardy claim in any meaningful manner therefore depends on the appealability of the trial court's ruling on the sufficiency of the evidence.
Because the sufficiency issue cannot now be reviewed, we hold that Richardson is not entitled to appellate review of his double jeopardy claim at this time.
II.
Appellate Jurisdiction In determining the appealability of an issue arising in a federal criminal proceeding, it is important to remember that in a criminal case "there is no constitutional right to an appeal."
6 Thus, it is not possible [**344] for Richardson to argue that the double jeopardy clause requires us to entertain the present appeal.
The appealability of Richardson's claims depends solely on whether Congress authorized such appeals under 28 U.S.C. 1291 .
7 Since a final judgment has not been reached by the court below, 8 appeal under section 1291 in turn depends on Richardson's ability to bring his claims within the collateral order exception to the final judgment rule.
This rule was first recognized in Cohen v. Beneficial Industrial Loan Corp. 9 and was reiterated in the context of a criminal case in Abney v. United States .
10 To come within the reach of the Cohen exception, the decision in question must meet three tests.
First, it must fully dispose of the controverted issue; in no sense may it "leave the matter 'open, unfinished or inconclusive.'"
11 Second, it must not be "simply a 'step toward final disposition of the merits of the case'"; it must resolve "an issue completely collateral to the cause of action asserted."
12 Finally, the decision must involve "an important right which would be 'lost, probably irreparably,'" if review awaited final judgment. 13 We have little difficulty in applying this test to the district court's ruling on Richardson's insufficiency claim.
That ruling fails to meet the second and third requirements of Cohen .
As two other circuits have noted, the legal sufficiency of the evidence presented is "a completely non-collateral issue."
14 This is because the ultimate question in a criminal trial is whether the defendant is guilty of the crime charged.
A defendant who chooses to go to trial is not guilty unless the prosecution is able to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant committed the crime.
15 If the evidence presented at the first trial was legally insufficient, Richardson is automatically not guilty.
Thus, the sufficiency of the evidence is anything but collateral to the merits of the upcoming trial ( i.e. , the question of defendant's guilt, for this is determined by the sufficiency of the evidence); rather, it is a "step toward final disposition of the merits of the case [which will] be merged in the final judgment," the type of issue which is not covered by the collateral order exception.
16 Further, the right to appellate review of the issue will not necessarily be lost if we refuse review at this time.
Three circuits have held that a criminal defendant can challenge the sufficiency of the evidence presented at his first trial (which resulted in a hung jury) when appealing his conviction at the second trial.
17 Indeed, in the present case the government concedes that [**345] Richardson's insufficiency claim will not be lost if it is not reviewed at this time, noting that "in the event he is convicted, [Richardson] can raise [the insufficiency claim] on appeal from that conviction."
18 Therefore, because the insufficiency claim does not meet either the second or third Cohen requirements, we cannot review that claim until after a final judgment is entered.
The appealability of the trial court's ruling on the double jeopardy claim is not as clear.
Two circuits have held that the trial court's denial of a double jeopardy claim based on the insufficiency of the evidence is not immediately appealable under Cohen .
19 One circuit has held to the contrary.
20 We agree with the former view, 21 although for reasons slightly different from [**346] those advanced by the Fourth and Fifth Circuits.
As noted earlier, 22 Richardson's double jeopardy claim is premised entirely on the assumption that the trial court's ruling on the sufficiency issue was erroneous.
As also noted earlier, 23 the propriety of the trial court's ruling on that issue cannot be reviewed by an appellate court at this time.
Therefore, since Richardson's double jeopardy claim exists at the appellate level 24 only if the district court's sufficiency of the evidence ruling is overturned, our refusal to review that ruling precludes any meaningful review of his double jeopardy claim at this time.
In other words, because this court is unable to address the sufficiency issue at this time and because that issue is the only basis for Richardson's double jeopardy claim, Richardson has failed to make at this time any double jeopardy claim which can be reviewed by an appellate court.
25 The analysis outlined above may be self-explanatory.
However, lest the simplicity of that analysis camouflage the complexity and importance of the issue being decided, we undertake to state our reasoning in another manner.
Despite the fact that Richardson's underlying claims are constitutional, the jurisdictional issue in this case concerns only the timing and scope of appeal , a question of statutory interpretation .
That jurisdictional issue is not an easy one, however, because of the nature of the legal issue underlying both claims--the sufficiency of the evidence--a legal issue which requires full review of the entire record created at the trial level.
In resolving that issue, there appear to be at least four alternatives available to us.
First, we could read section 1291 so as to permit full review of both the double jeopardy and the insufficiency claim at this time.
Second, we could interpret the statute so as to authorize immediate appeal of the double jeopardy claim, but not of the insufficiency claim.
Third, we could deny immediate review of the present claims and wipe the slate clean, thereby precluding review.
Finally, we could, as we do, conclude that the finality requirement of section 1291 precludes immediate appeal of any claim involving the sufficiency of the evidence, but that full review of both claims could be had after a final judgment is entered in the second trial.
The first alternative is unacceptable.
The entire purpose of the finality requirement of section 1291 is to "discourage undue litigiousness and leaden-footed administration of justice, particularly damaging to the conduct of criminal cases."
26 That purpose would be greatly undermined if a criminal defendant could interrupt the trial proceedings to seek appellate review of the trial court's ruling on the sufficiency of evidence presented.
Indeed, the established [**347] rule in this circuit, as well as in other circuits, is that denial of a motion to acquit on the ground of insufficient evidence is not a final decision within the meaning of section 1291 .
27 Nor does the insufficiency claim fit into the Cohen exception, as noted above.
28 Further, granting jurisdiction to review a double jeopardy claim made after a declaration of mistrial caused by a hung jury would implicate the longstanding rule that retrial after a hung jury is not barred by the double jeopardy clause.
29 Therefore, the panel unanimously repudiates the first alternative.
However, at that point the unanimity ends.
The dissent would adopt a mixture of the second and third alternatives (alternatives which are not inextricably connected), and we adopt the fourth, concluding that both the second and the third alternatives are undesirable.
Authorizing immediate review of the double jeopardy claim without reviewing the insufficiency claim which gives it life (the second alternative) is unacceptable because it renders meaningless the review granted.
The dissent would adopt this alternative because of the nature of the right involved in the double jeopardy claim.
However, the dissent would assert jurisdiction over the double jeopardy claim and then perfunctorily dismiss it as frivolous without examining the argument underlying the claim.
If, as the dissent asserts, the protection of Richardson's double jeopardy rights is so important that immediate review should be granted, that review should be meaningful, not merely cursory.
Completely precluding review of the insufficiency claim (the third alternative) is even more unpalatable.
30 The elimination of Richardson's right to have the trial court's determination of sufficiency reviewed would increase the likelihood that the government would be given a second chance to convict Richardson even though it failed to produce legally sufficient evidence the first time it had a full and fair opportunity to do so.
This is one of the primary evils the double jeopardy clause was designed to prevent.
As the Supreme Court has noted, the double jeopardy clause "forbids a second trial for the purpose of affording the prosecution another opportunity to supply evidence which it failed to muster in the first proceeding."
31 Thus, wiping the slate clean after the first trial would permit the government to bolster its case and convict the defendant at the second trial without ever being held accountable at the appellate level for its possible failure to produce legally sufficient evidence at the first trial.
We find no justification for this impairment of Richardson's rights.
We are aware that our decision increases the possibility that Richardson's double jeopardy right to be free from the rigors of an unnecessary second trial will be infringed since he will be required to endure the second trial before he is able to obtain appellate review of the trial court's ruling on the issue.
However, because the rights infringed by postponing review are less absolute [**348] than those infringed by precluding review and because the harm caused by permitting immediate review is greater than the harm created by permitting full review later, we feel that we are justified in drawing the line where we do.
The double jeopardy clause protects a variety of interests; among them a criminal defendant's interest "in avoiding multiple prosecutions even where no final determination of guilt or innocence has been made."
32 This is an interest which is "wholly unrelated to the propriety of any subsequent conviction."
33 It is an interest in avoiding the rigors and embarrassment of a second trial.
34 However, the defendant's interest in avoiding the rigors of a second trial is not absolute .
For example, his interest in this regard can be overridden by society's interest in seeing that the prosecution has at least "one complete opportunity to convict those who have violated its laws."
35 Thus, a judge may discharge a hung jury and require the defendant to submit to a second trial without violating the double jeopardy clause.
36 Similarly, it seems logical to conclude that Congress, in adopting the section 1291 finality requirement, determined that society's interest in avoiding the disruptions caused by interlocutory appeals involving the sufficiency of the evidence 37 outweighed the defendant's interest in ensuring that his less-than-absolute right would not be infringed without appellate review.
However, the double jeopardy clause also protects interests which are more absolute.
These include the defendant's interest in avoiding an erroneous conviction.
In this respect the double jeopardy clause prevents the prosecution "from honing its trial strategies and perfecting its evidence through successive attempts at conviction ."
38 This prohibition seems to be absolute because it lies "at the core of the Clause's protections."
39 In light of the above, and in light of the Supreme Court's opinion in Burks v. United States , 40 it appears that the double jeopardy clause is violated if the government has a full and fair opportunity to convict a defendant, fails to produce enough evidence to sustain its constitutional burden to present legally sufficient evidence, and is then given another opportunity to obtain a [**349] conviction.
The possibility that this constitutional violation would occur would increase if we eliminated Richardson's right to appellate review of the sufficiency issue because only one (the trial) court would be evaluating the sufficiency of the evidence produced at the first trial.
We find no societal interest which justifies this infringement on Richardson's rights.
As noted above, it cannot be argued that the double jeopardy clause requires the appellate court to review Richardson's insufficiency claim after the second trial.
41 But at the same time, while it seems logical to conclude that the need to avoid the disruptions caused by interlocutory appeals in criminal cases justifies postponing review of Richardson's insufficiency claim (thereby increasing the possibility that Richardson's less-than-absolute interest in avoiding the rigors of a second trial will be infringed), we refuse to believe, at least in the absence of clear evidence to the contrary, that Congress intended to preclude review of that issue when the result would have been to increase the likelihood that Richardson's absolute right to avoid an unconstitutional conviction would be violated.
Therefore, having rejected the other available alternatives and having satisfied ourselves that the interpretation we adopt is consistent with the Supreme Court's application of the Cohen exception in Abney , we conclude that Richardson cannot appeal the trial court's ruling on his insufficiency and double jeopardy claims until a final judgment is entered against him.
III.
Conclusion Richardson presents us with an appeal from the trial court's denial of two motions based on his argument that the evidence presented against him at his criminal trial was insufficient.
This appeal, however, comes before a final judgment has been entered against him.
Because a review of the issue at the base of the claims would undermine the policy behind the finality requirement of section 1291 , we hold that we cannot review those claims at this time, realizing full well that the trial court may have erred in its rulings and that as a result Richardson may be required to bear the rigors of an unnecessary second trial.
As the Supreme Court has noted: 42 Accordingly, Richardson's appeal is dismissed.
It is so ordered .
