 MARKEY , Chief Judge: Milton R. Wasman (Wasman) appeals his conviction by a jury in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida of knowingly and willfully making false statements in a passport application in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1542 .
1 He asserts procedural errors, judicial bias, and a sentence enhancement violative of due process.
We affirm.
Background At a first trial in September 1979, the government showed that in March 1978 Wasman applied for and obtained a passport in the name of his deceased law school classmate, David Hendrick.
Wasman did not dispute that showing, but attempted to introduce evidence that his purpose was to employ a non-Semitic name in business dealings with Arab investors.
2 The district court excluded that evidence as irrelevant.
The jury convicted and Wasman was sentenced to two years incarceration, six months to be spent in confinement, the balance suspended in favor of three years probation.
Wasman appealed, urging that he had legally assumed the name "Hendrick," and asserting error in the refusal to admit evidence of his purpose.
Holding that evidence admissible as indicative of circumstances surrounding Wasman's assumed-name defense, the court reversed and remanded for a new trial.
United States v. Wasman , 641 F.2d 326 (5th Cir.1981).
At the second trial, and to show that Wasman had not assumed a new name but had continued to use "Wasman", the government showed that in May 1978 he applied as "Wasman" for a duplicate driver's license, stating on the application that the original had been stolen.
Wasman testified that in February 1978 he met in London with Ronnie Comninos and Andrew Connolly, who allegedly represented Arabs interested in Florida real estate, and who advised him to secure identification under a non-Semitic name.
The court excluded testimony directly quoting that advice as hearsay, but permitted testimony on the general nature of the discussions.
Wasman also sought to show that Comninos and Connolly kidnapped him in Spain in March 1978; that they stole his driver's license and the "Hendrick" passport; and that he had traveled back to the United States under his "Wasman" passport.
The district court excluded that evidence as irrelevant.
Wasman was again convicted of violating 18 U.S.C. 1542 and was sentenced to two years confinement.
The court explained that it was enhancing the sentence in view of Wasman's interim conviction on a plea of nolo contendere to a charge of possession of counterfeit certificates of deposit.
Issues (1) Whether it was error to exclude: (a) evidence of kidnapping; (b) testimony quoting advice of Comninos and Connolly.
(2) Whether the trial court was biased against Wasman.
(3) Whether the sentence enhancement violated Wasman's due process rights.
OPINION (1) Exclusion of Evidence (a) Kidnapping Judge Roettger properly rejected as irrelevant Wasman's effort to show kidnapping and theft of his driver's license by Comninos and Connolly in Spain.
Proof of those facts, if facts they be, would bear no relation to the charge of making false statements in an earlier passport application.
3 Wasman says he "had a right to show the jury that he was telling the truth when he stated in his application for a duplicate license that the original had been stolen."
The veracity of that statement, however, was never challenged.
Thus Wasman's assertion that failure to admit evidence of a truthful application would leave the jury with an impression that he was prone to mislead when applying for various forms of identification is speculative and unfounded.
(b) Advice of Comninos and Connolly Relying on U.S. v. Herrera , 600 F.2d 502 (5th Cir.1979), Wasman says testimony precisely quoting Comninos' and Connolly's advice was offered not to prove the truth of the matter asserted but to show his state of mind, and on that basis the testimony should have been admitted.
Appellant in Herrera , however, asserted a coercion defense to which the exact language of certain threats was critical.
Connolly's and Comnino's exact statements are not critical here, where Wasman asserts neither threat nor coercion.
If there were error in refusing to allow direct quotation, it must be viewed as harmless.
Wasman was permitted to paraphrase in detail his conversations with Comninos and Connolly, and to convey to the jury his alleged motivation in entering a false name on his passport application.
(2) Bias Wasman says the trial judge made comments reflecting bias against him and entitling him to a new trial before a different judge.
The assertion is without merit.
Wasman cites as indicative of bias the same evidentiary rulings he challenged on their merits.
As indicated above, however, those rulings were correct and harmless.
Without more, a judge cannot be charged with bias for having made evidentiary rulings.
Nor, as set forth below, was the enhanced sentence indicative of bias, prejudice, or vindictiveness.
Judge Roettger's post-verdict comments to the jury concerning the background (i.e., the first trial and appeal) of the case and the evidentiary questions involved, did not in the slightest reflect personal bias or animosity toward Wasman.
Significantly, Wasman cites no pre-verdict statement to the jurors that would or might have influenced their impartiality.
There is on this record no basis whatsoever for inferring bias or prejudice of any kind against Wasman.
(3) Sentence Enhancement The fact pattern out of which this issue rises is one of first impression in this circuit.
Wasman says enhancement of his sentence violated his right to due process, citing North Carolina v. Pearce , 395 U.S. 711 , 89 S.Ct. 2072 , 23 L.Ed.2d 656 (1969).
In Pearce the Court said a judge may enhance the sentence of a reconvicted defendant who had successfully attacked a first conviction, but went on to state a constitutional limitation on that authority: "Due process of law, then, requires that vindictiveness against a defendant for having successfully attacked his first conviction must play no part in the sentence he receives after a new trial."
Id., at 725 , 89 S.Ct., at 2080 .
Thereafter, "to assure the absence of such a motivation," the Court fashioned a procedural guideline: Id., at 726 , 89 S.Ct., at 2081 .
In Pearce , the constitutional considerations of concern had their genesis not only in the possibility of judicial vindictiveness, but in the possibility of a prohibiting perception on the part of those convicted, i.e., that a successful appeal might itself be the cause for sentence enhancement on re-conviction.
395 U.S. at 724, 725 , 89 S.Ct. at 2080 .
Having identified vindictiveness and its inhibiting potential as phenomena to be avoided, the Court elected to supply the quoted guidelines as a means to that end.
4 Judge Roettger followed precisely the procedural steps of Pearce , affirmatively stating on the record his reason for enhancing the sentence, basing that reason on objective information concerning identifiable conduct of the defendant, and making the factual data on which his action was based part of the record so that its constitutional legitimacy may be fully reviewed on appeal: Because Wasman's interim conviction was for an offense committed before his first trial, he focuses on the phrase "conduct occurring after the time of the original sentencing" in Pearce , saying it prohibits consideration of that offense as a basis for sentence enhancement.
Wasman's argument concerns but a part of the means, and ignores the end sought to be achieved in Pearce .
It exalts words above substance.
For those reasons, the argument is not persuasive.
Moreover, a rigid limitation of increased sentences to those based on misconduct occurring after the first sentencing would needlessly erase relevant information from the sentencing slate, while contributing nothing to the goal of avoiding vindictiveness.
An intervening conviction adds a new dimension to the data before a sentencing judge who had disregarded charges merely pending at the time of an earlier sentencing hearing.
When, as here, the effect of an intervening conviction is to convert what had been considered a legal nullity for sentencing purposes, i.e., a mere accusation, into a fact fully relevant to sentencing, i.e., that defendant had committed an additional crime, a sentence enhancement based on that additional conviction does not impede the goals outlined in Pearce .
5 The thrust of Pearce is that increased punishment after appeal and reconviction violates a defendant's due process rights when it results from judicial vindictiveness.
In setting forth its guidelines the Court's express objective was to assure absence of such retaliatory motivation.
Reading the Court's Pearce opinion in its entirety and in light of the facts of that case, as we must, Armour & Co. v. Wantock , 323 U.S. 126, 132, 133 , 65 S.Ct. 165, 168, 169 , 89 L.Ed. 118 (1944), convinces us that increased sentences are not thereby limited to instances in which a defendant has committed an offense after the first trial.
6 The target in Pearce was vindictive sentencing, not defendant misbehavior between trials.
No reason exists for applying a phrase in the Pearce guidelines to circumstances bearing no relation to the purpose of those guidelines.
There is on this record no evidence whatsoever that the enhancement here resulted from vindictiveness of Judge Roettger.
Nor does Wasman argue that it did.
In such circumstances, an increased sentence neither thwarts the purpose of Pearce and its guidelines nor offends constitutional due process considerations.
The view here expressed is consonant with the Supreme Court's treatment of Pearce as unequivocally directed to and only to the hazard of vindictiveness.
In Moon v. Maryland , 398 U.S. 319 , 90 S.Ct. 1730 , 26 L.Ed.2d 262 (1970), the Court dismissed a writ of certiorari as improvidently granted because Moon did not allege that his increased sentence was motivated by vindictiveness.
Id. at 320 , 90 S.Ct. at 1730-31 .
In Colten v. Kentucky , 407 U.S. 104 , 92 S.Ct. 1953 , 32 L.Ed.2d 584 (1972), the Court explained that Pearce did not bar an increased sentence after a de novo trial because the "possibility of vindictiveness, found to exist in Pearce , is not inherent in the Kentucky two-tier system."
Id. at 116 , 92 S.Ct. at 1960 .
In Chaffin v. Stynchcombe , 412 U.S. 17 , 93 S.Ct. 1977 , 36 L.Ed.2d 714 (1972), in the course of considering whether imposition of an increased sentence by a jury upon retrial violates due process, the Court said: vindictiveness Pearce Id., at 25 , 93 S.Ct., at 1982 .
In sum, "[t]he lesson that emerges from Pearce , [ Moon ], Colten and Chaffin is that the Due Process Clause is not offended by all possibilities of increased punishment upon retrial after appeal, but only by those that pose a realistic likelihood of 'vindictiveness'".
Blackledge v. Perry , 417 U.S. 21, 27 , 94 S.Ct. 2098, 2102 , 40 L.Ed.2d 628 (1974).
Thus the post Pearce guidance supplied by the Court makes clear that where, as here, the record establishes a total absence of any "realistic likelihood" of vindictiveness, an increased sentence does not offend the Due Process Clause.
Wasman cites United States v. Markus , 603 F.2d 409 (2d Cir.1979) and United States v. Williams , 651 F.2d 644 (9th Cir.1981).
In Markus , the court said, "[i]ntervening convictions based on indictments pending at the time of the original sentencing and upon conduct predating that sentencing, cannot satisfy Pearce 's exacting requirement".
603 F.2d at 414 .
The Ninth Circuit's view expressed in Williams is substantially identical to that expressed in Markus .
7 The later Supreme Court opinions explaining Pearce were not discussed in either Markus or Williams .
We decline to adopt the approach taken by our sister circuits in Markus and Williams because, in our view, that approach separates a suggested procedure for avoiding a result from the result sought to be avoided.
It grants an independent status to the words "conduct occurring after ", while disregarding their relationship, if any, to the avoidance of vindictiveness.
Adoption of that approach, moreover, would have only two possible consequences, neither likely to be of service to the governing constitutional considerations in Pearce .
One consequence would be a requirement that an offense merely charged at the time of first sentencing be considered in setting that first sentence.
The alternative would be total immunization of the predating offense from consideration at any time.
We think the better course lies in recognizing that when offenses the subject of charges then merely pending are totally disregarded at original sentencing, those offenses may be considered on the record at second sentencing when convictions on those offenses have occurred in the interim.
Nothing in that course would appear to us to impede, even peripherally, the thrust of Pearce , i.e., avoidance of sentence enhancement based on vindictiveness, real or apparent, for success on appeal.
8 The desire to have and simultaneously eat one's cake is understandable; but catering in the courtroom to that desire can produce only annoying anomalies in the law.
This case is illustrative.
Wasman specifically requested at his first sentencing hearing that the offense for which a charge was then pending be disregarded because he had not had an opportunity to disprove the charge.
Judge Roettger, in accord with his announced practice, granted that request.
Now, after conviction for that same offense, Wasman again says it should continue to be disregarded, this time because the critical date should be that of the offense.
As indicated above, the argument is unavailing.
In all of the circumstances, we hold that Wasman's increased sentence was in this case proper, that it was based on objective, factual new evidence not previously considered, that it was neither motivated by judicial vindictiveness nor reasonably perceivable as having been so motivated, and that it did not therefore infringe Wasman's right to due process.
Conclusion No error occurred in refusing the evidence of kidnapping and quotation of Comninos and Connally.
Nothing of record remotely indicates bias or prejudice against Wasman.
The enhancement of Wasman's sentence in view of his intervening conviction was not violative of Wasman's due process rights.
Accordingly, we affirm.
The conviction is AFFIRMED.
