 MURNAGHAN , Circuit Judge: Plaintiff, Robert W. Johnson, a Baltimore City firefighter, five of his fellows, and the EEOC, as intervenor, brought suit under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. 621 , et seq.
, complaining that the Baltimore City pension provisions for firefighters impermissibly discriminated on grounds of age.
1 In their action, instituted on May 29, 1979, plaintiffs sought primarily an injunction prohibiting compelled retirement before an employee had reached sixty-five.
Plaintiff Johnson and four of the other five individual plaintiffs had attained the age of sixty years when the suit was filed.
2 A consensual temporary restraining order was entered permitting the five individuals to continue in active employment status with the fire department pending resolution of the case.
When suit was brought, Plaintiff James L. Porter was only thirty years of age.
The district court determined, however, that Porter had standing inasmuch as uncertainty as to the prospective mandatory retirement age could presently affect his decision whether to remain an employee of the fire department or to seek employment elsewhere.
After a court trial, the district court entered judgment for the plaintiffs.
Johnson v. Mayor and City Council of Baltimore , 515 F.Supp.
1287 (D.Md.1981), cert. denied , 455 U.S. 944 , 102 S.Ct. 1440 , 71 L.Ed.2d 656 (1982).
For some time, prior to 1962, the overall retirement system covering Baltimore City employees generally applied to firefighters.
Under that plan, retirement was not mandatory until the employee had attained the age of seventy years.
In 1962, however, the City established the Fire & Police Employees Retirement System (F & PERS), which in part provided pension benefits for all uniformed Fire Department personnel.
The City obtained enabling legislation from the State of Maryland for the F & PERS at the urging of the union, to which the individual plaintiffs belonged.
Among the motivating factors for the adoption of the F & PERS was a belief that exposure to medical disablement in stressful circumstances increased with age.
The F & PERS accordingly provided for mandatory retirement at the age of fifty-five (sixty in transitional cases involving firefighters in service on July 1, 1962, the date when the new plan went into effect).
We first consider plaintiffs' claims based on the equal protection clause and 42 U.S.C. 1983 .
For Fourteenth Amendment purposes, plaintiffs have established neither inherent unreasonableness nor a denial of equal protection amounting to constitutional deprivations.
The legislation was well within the discretionary powers of the deliberating body, state or federal, especially since "rationality" rather than "strict judicial scrutiny" is the test.
Massachusetts Board of Retirement v. Murgia , 427 U.S. 307 , 96 S.Ct. 2562 , 49 L.Ed.2d 520 (1976).
3 The plaintiffs' complaint, in reality, boils down to an objection that there is too much equality in a requirement that all firefighters retire at fifty-five.
The factual scenario is entirely devoid of any indicated attempt to punish individual employees or to seek an unwarranted advantage for the City.
The City established the F & PERS in part to address concerns about the continued ability of the City's firefighters to respond efficiently and effectively to the demands of firefighting.
The legislation simply reflected a preference for an inflexible age determination in lieu of case-by-case examination leading to decision on the individualized basis of each and every employee's medical condition, as monitored and remonitored from time to time.
We therefore conclude that (a) there are not sufficient grounds to support a determination that there has been a violation of the equal protection clause, and that (b) therefore, no basis exists for the award of remedies under 42 U.S.C. 1983 .
We next consider plaintiffs' claim under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967.
At the time the City established the F & PERS, the ADEA had not yet been enacted.
The Act prohibits "various forms of age discrimination in employment, including the discharge of workers on the basis of age."
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission v. Wyoming , 460 U.S. 226 , , 103 S.Ct. 1054, 1058 , 75 L.Ed.2d 18 (1983); 29 U.S.C. 623(a) .
In 1974 the ADEA was extended generally to the states and their political subdivisions as employers.
29 U.S.C. 630(b)(2) .
It also was made applicable to a number of federal instrumentalities, but not to the agencies hiring federal police or firefighters.
See 29 U.S.C. 633a(a) .
The Act initially protected workers between the ages of forty and sixty-five.
29 U.S.C. 631 .
In 1978, Congress raised the maximum age to seventy.
Age Discrimination in Employment Act Amendments of 1978, 92 Stat. 189 .
4 The ADEA, however, does not flatly prohibit consideration by employers of age in all instances.
Instead, consistent with its underlying purpose of eradicating arbitrary age discrimination, the Congress recognized that "criteria based on age are occasionally justified."
EEOC v. Wyoming , 460 U.S. at , 103 S.Ct. at 1058 .
The ADEA therefore deems lawful certain otherwise prohibited employment practices 29 U.S.C. 623(f)(1) .
In EEOC v. Wyoming , supra , the Supreme Court provided guidance for determining the existence of a bona fide occupational qualification.
There the Court considered the State of Wyoming's policy of mandatory retirement of its game wardens at age fifty-five.
The Court rejected the state's contention that the Tenth Amendment, 5 as construed in National League of Cities v. Usery , 426 U.S. 833 , 96 S.Ct. 2465 , 49 L.Ed.2d 245 (1976), rendered Wyoming immune from federal intervention with respect to the regulation of its game wardens.
The Court did not, however, declare the state's mandatory retirement age invalid under the ADEA.
To the contrary, it reiterated that the mandatory retirement age could remain undisturbed if the state could prove that age was a bona fide occupational qualification for game wardens.
precisely what they are doing now National League of Cities supra 426 U.S.] at 848 96 S.Ct. at 2472 in the way it thinks best but is merely being tested against a reasonable federal standard EEOC v. Wyoming , 460 U.S. at , 103 S.Ct. at 1062 .
6 The Court remanded the case for a determination as to whether the mandatory retirement at fifty-five was in fact a bona fide occupational qualification, i.e. , did it satisfy a reasonable federal standard test.
7 In light of the Court's disposition of EEOC v. Wyoming , we must initiate a search for a "reasonable federal standard" by which to test whether age is a bona fide occupational qualification for the City of Baltimore's firefighters.
Congress has, however, made the search a simple one.
With respect to federal firefighters, Congress has provided the standard.
The same Congress that extended the ADEA to the states and their political subdivisions reinvigorated the requirement mandating retirement as a general matter at fifty-five 8 for federal police and firefighting employees.
Pub.L.
93-350, 88 Stat. 356 , 5 U.S.C. 8335(b) .
9 The Legislative History accompanying the passage of P.L.
93-350 reveals the Congressional concern for the taxing nature of firefighting endeavors: 10 Where Congress itself has deemed age to be a bona fide occupational qualification for federal firefighters, we perceive no justification for ignoring the Congressional mandate in ascertaining "a reasonable federal standard" by which to measure firefighting in the City of Baltimore.
Both federal and city firefighters are engaged in extremely stressful and hazardous activities designed to promote public safety.
Absent a determination that age, specifically no more than fifty-five as a general rule, is a bona fide occupational qualification for firefighters, we would be compelled to conclude that Congress, in authorizing the automatic retirement of federal police and firefighting personnel, adopted an occupational qualification that is not, or might not be, bona fide .
A court should not lightly make such a determination as to Congressional purpose.
The existence of a Congressional determination of the reasonable federal standard for firefighters distinguishes the fact pattern in the instant case from that in EEOC v. Wyoming .
No comparable federal statute exists insofar as federal game wardens are concerned.
It therefore devolved upon the district court in Wyoming to ascertain, on remand, by consideration of conflicting expert testimony, the acceptability of the mandatory retirement provisions.
Similarly, in the absence of Congressional guidance, a trial would have been necessary to determine whether the City's use of age is a bona fide occupational qualification for its firefighters.
In such an instance, we might well be persuaded by the thorough, impeccably reasoned opinion, issued by Judge Alexander Harvey II after a bench trial below.
11 Instead, we reverse the decision below, in recognition of the fact that, by Congress' own reasonable federal standard, age is a bona fide occupational qualification for the job of firefighting in the City of Baltimore.
12 Our conclusion is compelled further by the well-established rule that resolution of an unresolved and serious constitutional question should be avoided if a reasonable statutory interpretation would lead to a result obviating the necessity for a resolution of an issue of basic law. 13 Here we avoid not one, but three, such potentially serious constitutional questions.
First, for Judge Harvey, the power of Congress, under 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment, to extend the ADEA to state and local governments appeared to have been settled by this court's decision in Arritt v. Grisell , 567 F.2d 1267 (4th Cir.1977).
14 The validity of that conclusion, however, is questionable after EEOC v. Wyoming , supra .
15 We therefore perceive that the question is both unresolved and close as to whether 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment generates the power to permit, in the circumstances here presented, congressional extension of the ADEA to state and local governments.
16 Second, the power of Congress under the Commerce Clause to extend the ADEA to City firefighters may yet remain unanswered after EEOC v. Wyoming .
The mandatory retirement provision at issue in EEOC v. Wyoming affected only game wardens with statewide powers.
National League of Cities v. Usery , supra , on the other hand concerned " the States' abilities to structure employer-employee relationships in such areas as firefighters, police protection, sanitation, public health, and parks and recreation."
Id .
426 U.S. at 851 , 17 96 S.Ct. at 2474 .
The firefighters in the instant case were far more localized than state game wardens, being employees of a single political subdivision, and so more removed from the federal government and its national concerns.
Each case was decided by a vote of five to four.
18 Whether the Supreme Court would view the City's firefighters as more akin to Wyoming's game wardens, or to the employees at issue in National League of Cities v. Usery , is again both an unresolved and narrow question, beyond the scope of this case as a consequence of our disposition on a reasonable grounds of statutory interpretation. 19 Third, the constitutional separation of powers doctrine remains a viable restriction on the exercise of both legislative and adjudicative power.
"[W]e consistently have emphasized that the federal lawmaking power is vested in the legislative, not the judicial, branch of government " Northwest Airlines, Inc. v. Transport Workers , 451 U.S. 77, 95 , 101 S.Ct. 1571, 1582 , 67 L.Ed.2d 750 (1981); see generally Springer v. Philippine Islands , 277 U.S. 189, 201-2 , 48 S.Ct. 480, 482 , 72 L.Ed. 845 (1928).
Congress has, in 5 U.S.C. 8335(b) , adopted a legislative answer to the question of whether the purely chronological age of not over 55 is or is not a bona fide occupational qualification for firefighting.
It is questionable whether we can constitutionally supply the answer instead by an adjudicative, case-by-case approach.
The question appears to be the same when raised for firefighters, in San Francisco or in Baltimore.
20 The situation may not fit the intended accommodation of differing factual circumstances lending themselves to case-by-case resolution.
In the United States of America we are blessed with a Constitution which, both in words and in wise interpretation over the years, is intelligently flexible.
It will bend before it breaks, displaying a pliability enabling it to accommodate to new challenges and to address old, persistent problems.
Still it cannot simply be altogether without structure.
Too many repeated folds or creases can lead to a tear along one of the lines of stress.
The concerns of a constitutional nature potentially present, if all should have to be addressed, might lead to an unfortunate rupture.
Fortunately, we are spared the necessity to explore the three unclear issues of basic law to which we have alluded.
We need not grapple with whether legislation would have led to enforcement of the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
We need not explore just how far principles extend in terms of the power of the federal government to impinge on the exercise of integral governmental functions by the states.
Nor must we decide whether action in a particular area is legislative or judicial.
"It is well settled that this Court will not pass on the constitutionality of an Act of Congress if a construction of the statute is fairly possible by which the question may be avoided."
United States v. Clark , 445 U.S. 23, 27 , 100 S.Ct. 895, 899 , 63 L.Ed.2d 171 (1980); see also Johnson v. Robinson , 415 U.S. 361, 366-67 , 94 S.Ct. 1160, 1165-1166 , 39 L.Ed.2d 389 (1974).
We conclude, therefore, that the ADEA did not establish for the firefighters of Baltimore City a bar to mandatory retirement at age fifty-five (sixty for transitional cases).
EEOC v. Wyoming , properly viewed, encourages the conclusion that the ADEA and 5 U.S.C. 8335(b) are not mutually exclusive or antagonistic, but should be read to exist in a harmonized way, especially when we thereby avoid close and unresolved constitutional questions.
21 Finally, by viewing the provisions of the City ordinance as properly enforceable, we enhance the promotion of harmony between state and federal legislation.
22 Accordingly, the judgments below are reversed and the case remanded for entry of judgments in favor of the defendants.
REVERSED.
