 SPOTTSWOOD W. ROBINSON, III , Chief Judge: A corollary to the doctrine of sovereign immunity exempts the United States from liability for interest absent its express consent thereto. 1 The sole issue on this appeal is whether the District Court dishonored that precept when, in assessing an attorneys' fee against the United States, it effected a 30 percent upward adjustment of the lodestar 2 to compensate the attorney for delay in receipt of payment.
We sustain the adjustment alternatively on two grounds.
First, we conclude that the language of the statute authorizing allowances of attorneys' fees against the United States in employment-discrimination cases waives its sovereign immunity with respect to the delay component of the fee award.
Second, we find that component validated by a line of cases relaxing the traditional rigor of the sovereign-immunity doctrine.
I In 1976 and again in 1977, Tommy Shaw, a black employee of the Library of Congress, submitted complaints of job-related racial discrimination to the Library's Equal Employment Office. 3 In 1978, after the Library remained resistant to these complaints, Shaw's counsel engaged in administrative proceedings and during the course thereof entered into negotiations which culminated in a settlement agreement.
4 As part of the settlement, the Library agreed to promote Shaw retroactively with backpay provided the Comptroller General first determined that the Library had authority to do so without a specific finding of racial discrimination.
5 The Comptroller General, however, held that the Library lacked power [**357] under the Back Pay Act of 1966 6 to pursue that course.
7 Dissatisfied with this turn of events, Shaw sued in the District Court 8 and ultimately prevailed on his position that the Library had authority to afford the relief specified in the settlement accord.
9 As a result of Shaw's victory, the court ordered that he be awarded litigation costs and reasonable attorneys' fees, 10 withholding, however, determination of the dollar amount thereof until after further proceedings and this court's decision in Copeland v. Marshall , 11 then pending en banc .
12 By this time, primary responsibility for prosecution of Shaw's claim had devolved upon new lawyers, but the efforts of his earlier counsel before the Library and in the District Court had involved considerable time and energy.
13 After our decision in Copeland was announced, counsel moved for an allowance of attorneys' fees, 14 requesting compensation at the rate of $85 per hour for 103.75 hours of work on Shaw's behalf during the course of those proceedings.
15 Largely dismissing the Library's challenges to both the hourly rate and the number of hours claimed by Shaw's counsel, 16 the District Court computed a lodestar of $8,435, 17 based on 99 hours of work at the $85 proposed hourly rate, excluding from its calculation 4.75 hours which counsel devoted to research in an abortive effort to impart a class-action aspect to Shaw's administrative complaints.
18 The court then reduced the lodestar by 20 percent to reflect the quality of counsel's representation.
19 Lastly, and most importantly for this appeal, the court increased the lodestar by 30 percent to compensate counsel for the delay in actual payment for the legal services he had rendered.
20 The court explained: [**358] 21 Then, offsetting the 30 percent increase in the lodestar by the 20 percent reduction in the lodestar, the District Court granted a net 10 percent addition to the lodestar 22 and, accordingly, awarded counsel a fee of $9,278.50.
23 The Library has appealed, 24 arguing that the 30 percent upward adjustment for delay infringes the rule that interest may not be assessed against the United States in the absence of waiver.
25 II The issue posed on appeal is hardly one of first impression.
In Copeland v. Marshall , 26 we declared en banc that the United States can be held liable under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 27 for attorneys' fees in an amount augmented to compensate for the lag attending payment.
We said: 28 [**359] We have subsequently reaffirmed this principle 29 and, indeed, have upheld an award of attorneys' fees against the United States that in fact was adjusted upward to compensate for delay.
30 Despite the seemingly clear applicability of these precedents, however, we do not rest our disposition on stare decisis alone.
Whether an upward delay adjustment in an attorneys'-fee award satisfies the rigorous requirements of the sovereign-immunity doctrine is an issue we have dealt with only peripherally, 31 and one we have never squarely addressed.
We recognize, too, the jurisdictional implications of any legal bar created by that doctrine, and acknowledge the existence of decisions of this circuit arguably in conflict with Copeland and its progeny on this point.
32 We therefore opt to consider the Library's argument much as if it were presented upon a clean slate.
III The initial inquiry, of course, is whether the District Court's 30 percent augmentation of the lodestar for delay in payment of the fee constitutes "interest" against the United States within the contemplation of the rule invoked by the Library.
Shaw characterizes this component of the fee award as a proper ingredient of a reasonable attorneys' fee, in contradistinction to interest.
33 The only way to determine whether this addition to the lodestar is condemned by the traditional interest rule is to ascertain what that rule prohibits.
Perhaps the clearest example of interest appears when a court, after calculating the amount of a monetary judgment, adds a percentage of that amount to compensate the claimant for loss of use of the money during the period between the claimant's initial entitlement to the money and the day the judgment is rendered.
34 Here the long-established [**360] rule refuses to view the sovereign as having consented to the addition, even though consent to suit on the claim has been established.
35 The same results follow court-awarded sums which, though not interest calculated in the classic manner, nonetheless are functionally equivalent to interest.
Thus the Supreme Court has rejected a contention that an increase in an assessment by the Court of Claims against the United States, made as compensation for loss of use and occupation of a mining claim appropriated by the United States years earlier, was "compensation" rather than interest.
36 The Court reasoned that because "the loss of the use of the money results from the failure to collect sooner a claim held to have accrued when the company's property was taken, that which the company seeks to recover is, in substance, interest."
37 We ourselves recently held an "inflation adjustment" in awards of backpay to federal employees amounted to interest against the United States because it served "the same general end of compensating the recipient for differences in the worth of her award between the date of actual receipt and the date as of which the money should have been paid."
38 In the case at bar, the District Court's 30 percent addition to the lodestar was designed to reimburse Shaw's counsel for the decrease in value of his uncollected legal fee between the date on which he concluded his legal services and the court's estimated date of likely actual receipt.
39 By the court's own description, the addition was based on a rough determination of the "average yield" of the amount of the fee if invested at 10 percent per annum for three years. 40 We think the adjustment falls well within the contours of the interest concept.
Only by ignoring applicable caselaw as well as as the real nature of the disputed adjustment could we find anything other than an assessment of interest against the United States.
41 We proceed, [**361] then, to the Library's contention that the District Court's action in this regard disregards the dictates of the doctrine of sovereign immunity.
IV The United States cannot be subjected to monetary liability save pursuant to a waiver of its sovereign immunity.
42 Moreover, the scope of such a waiver is to be strictly construed.
43 The instant case involves a corollary of these principles, which for convenience we term the "interest rule."
By this rule, the United States may not be held liable for interest absent an express waiver of its immunity.
44 The question we face here is whether Congress has waived that immunity with respect to an allowance of interest as part of an attorneys' fee awarded, as here, under Title VII.
The relevant section of Title VII provides that the United States shall be liable for costs the same as a private person 45 A private person, of course, may be held liable for interest as an ingredient of a Title VII attorneys'-fees award, 46 and this section subjects the United States to liability for "costs the same as a private person," and authorizes assessment of "a reasonable attorney's fee as part of the costs."
We conclude that Congress thus has waived the immunity of the United States from liability for interest as a component of an attorneys' fee allowed under Title VII.
The statutory waiver is express, and its range is defined in unmistakable language.
To say that a private person, but not the United States, is liable under Title VII for interest as an element of an attorneys' fee would rob the unambiguous statutory language of its plain meaning.
It would defeat the statutory imposition upon the United States of a liability for costs, and the statutory inclusion of "a reasonable attorney's fee as part of the costs," identical to [**362] that of a private party in similar circumstances.
The scope-setting statutory words--"the same as a private person"--mark out the United States' liability for attorneys' fees as well as costs in the traditional sense.
Our responsibility as judges is to enforce this provision according to its terms.
47 We think Congress articulated its goal clearly enough by providing for governmental liability "the same as a private person."
Conceivably, Congress might have attempted to effectuate its purpose by legislation listing each item of costs, including interest, for which the United States might be held accountable.
That approach, however, could well have led to the discovery of interstices among the enumerated items, especially since the courts would have had to obey the rule requiring strict construction of waivers of sovereign immunity; 48 its adoption, consequently, would not likely have achieved the congressional objective, manifest here, that the United States be treated no differently from private parties in similar circumstances.
49 It seems to us that, despite the availability of alternative statutory schemes waiving immunity from interest liability, there is simply no more direct and effective way to ensure complete parity between the United States and other litigants with respect to costs than to say so in so many words.
That Congress did so in this section, we conclude, evinces an "express" waiver within the meaning of the interest rule.
Congress obviously understood the broad sweep of language which makes the United States just as liable as "a private person."
In the Federal Torts Claims Act, 50 which later we discuss further, 51 Congress made the United States liable for certain torts "in the same manner and to the same extent as a private individual under like circumstances," 52 but immediately curtailed the obvious import of this language by providing that the United States "shall not be liable for interest prior to judgment."
53 It is difficult to understand why Congress bothered to exclude pre-judgment interest if the imposition upon the United States of liability "to the same extent as a private individual under like circumstances" was insufficient [**363] to constitute an express waiver of liability for that interest.
That the attorneys'-fee section of Title VII does not actually use the word "interest" does not, in our view, make the waiver any less express.
Notwithstanding the long history and wide variety of verbal articulations of the interest rule, we have not uncovered a single case supporting the proposition that a waiver of sovereign immunity is not express merely on that account.
54 In fact, several decisions weigh against that position.
The Supreme Court has held that Congress may satisfy the requirements of an analogous rule--that the United States is not bound by its own statutes unless expressly named therein 55 --without identifying the United States in so many words.
56 Additionally, this circuit recently has held, 57 when construing a purported waiver of governmental immunity from liability for attorneys' fees under the Alyeska doctrine, 58 that the words "attorneys' fees" are not "magic words" 59 that Congress must use to satisfy the requirement that the waiver be "specific, if not explicit."
60 On the basis of such close precedent, as well as common sense, we believe that "interest" is not a "magic word" the recital of which is prerequisite to a waiver of sovereign immunity respecting the interest component of an attorneys' fee award.
Surely if Congress were to enact a comprehensive and unambiguous statute abrogating entirely and for all purposes the sovereign-immunity doctrine, we would not resuscitate the United States' immunity with respect to interest merely because Congress did not specifically enumerate "interest."
Rather, we would construe such a provision as an express waiver of interest immunity and implement it accordingly, and in reality we do no more here.
We underscore our more general view that an insightful approach to the problem before us is undermined, if not entirely precluded, by logomachic applications of the interest rule.
Courts bear this observation out by consistently avoiding a wooden or formulaic definition of express waiver when referring to the interest rule.
This circuit itself has declined to fashion a rigid [**364] concept of express waiver, 61 and the courts have not perceived a need to establish any particular verbal formulation thereof.
Rather, they have variously required, if anything at all, 62 an "express" 63 waiver, a "clearcut" 64 waiver, a "specific" 65 waiver, and "explicit" 66 waiver, an "unequivocal" 67 waiver, a "plain" 68 waiver, a "manifest" 69 waiver, an "affirmative" 70 waiver, an "unambiguous" 71 waiver, or a waiver described by a combination of these adjectives.
There is nothing talismanic in the word "express," 72 and we would distort the interest rule were we to inform its application by resort to any intuitive call for clarity of legislative expression thought peculiarily to lurk in the recesses of the word, or any other term used analogously as an ostensible criterion by which claimed waivers are to be judged.
Rather, our use of the interest rule is instructed more appropriately by reference to the touchstone of the sovereign-immunity doctrine: "that the liability of the United States is a matter of federal law, and its extent and the procedures for imposing it must be sought in the statutes."
73 The Supreme Court has echoed this view, declaring that the standard for gauging asserted waivers of sovereign immunity as express or not is whether the statute "can fairly be interpreted" as mandating governmental liability.
74 Giving this counsel the respect it is due, we think a disclaimer of waiver here would impart to the concept of express waiver an understanding more limited and formalistic than necessary to achieve the objectives underlying the interest rule.
This conclusion is reinforced by the resolve of several courts, recognizing the need for perspective when applying the rule requiring strict construction of sovereign-immunity waivers, to vigorously resist the tendency of the rule to become increasingly demanding by force of its own inertia.
75 As one court has put it, the strict-construction [**365] rule "is not entitled to be made a judicial vise to squeeze the natural and obvious import out of a statute or to sap its language of its normal and sound legal meaning."
76 The Supreme Court has reiterated the essence of this view: 77 When dealing with the interest rule, we see as much need for perspective to avoid strangulation of legislative intent by an unwarranted use of judicial force.
78 We think Congress spoke clearly enough when, with respect to attorneys' fees, it ordained for the United States a liability "the same as a private person."
79 We hold that Congress thereby waived the immunity of the United States from liability for interest as part of a reasonable attorneys' fee.
V Even were we to find Title VII's attorneys'-fee section inadequate as an express waiver, we would affirm the District Court's fee award on the basis of a substantial body of caselaw relaxing the traditional rigor of the sovereign-immunity doctrine when a statute measures the liability of the United States by that of private persons.
The doctrine espoused by these cases, while spanning numerous and diverse statutory schemes, has attained prominence in litigation under the Suits in Admiralty Act.
80 It is, accordingly, with this legislation that we commence our examination of the doctrine for purposes of ascertaining its applicability to the case at bar.
As originally framed, the Act provided that the United States could be held liable for harm inflicted by its merchant vessels "[i]n cases where if such vessel were privately owned or operated, or if such cargo were privately owned or possessed, a proceeding in admiralty could be maintained."
81 Congress later amended the Act by adding, as a third clause, the phrase "or if a private person or property were involved," 82 thus underscoring the Act's plain command that governmental liability [**366] in admiralty be equivalent to that of private persons in similar circumstances.
83 Federal courts have interpreted this language broadly to effectuate the congressional purpose evident therefrom. 84 The Supreme Court has explicitly rejected application of the customary rule of strict construction and held instead that "[t]hese liberal provisions indicate that the language used in the [Act] should have its broad and ordinary meaning and should not be interpreted in a restricted sense."
85 Later decisions by other federal courts have reiterated the theme that Congress intended, and that the Act should accordingly be interpreted, to make governmental liability "coextensive" with that of private parties.
86 They have rebuffed attempts to inject "unintended" or "irrational" 87 refinements into the Act, and have construed the language "sensibly, naturally, [and] literally."
88 One court has even held that the United States is liable as a private person in new causes of action imported into admiralty law subsequent to passage or amendment of the Act.
89 In short, federal courts generally have refused to wield the rule of strict construction to defeat the plain and natural meaning of the Act's command that liability of the United States be identical to that of private counterparts.
90 Buttressing the exception to the strict-construction rule prevalent in Suits in Admiralty Act cases, federal courts also have liberally construed other similarly broad statutory waivers of sovereign immunity.
For example, the Federal Torts Claims Act 91 waives the immunity of the United States in unqualified language, imposing upon it liability for certain kinds of tortious conduct "to the same extent as a private [**367] individual under like circumstances."
92 The Supreme Court has placed liability on the United States for activities which, as a practical matter, are never privately undertaken because it has felt compelled to implement the "broad and just purpose which the statute was designed to effect," 93 namely, to treat the government as any private person would be treated.
Similarly, when the question arose whether the Act allowed the United States to be sued as a third-party defendant in an action for contribution initiated by a joint tortfeasor, the Court refused to read "fine distinctions" into the Act.
94 Far from accepting a rule of strict construction, it specifically rejected an attempt to restrict the scope of the Act's broad language, which clearly put the United States on the same footing as a private party.
95 The Court quoted favorably a statement to which we earlier adverted: 96 "[t]he exemption of the sovereign from suit involves hardship enough where consent has been withheld.
We are not to add to its rigor by refinement of construction where consent has been announced."
97 This same broad construction has been brought to bear on the Public Vessels Act, 98 which provides that "[a] libel in personam in admiralty may be brought against the United States for damages caused by a public vessel of the United States."
99 It too has been given the interpretation borne by the plain and ordinary meaning of its language.
100 Though this provision is less explicit than those of the Suits in Admiralty and Tort Claims Acts with respect to the comparative responsibilities of the United States and private persons, the Supreme Court has interpreted it "to impose on the United States the same liability as is imposed by the admiralty law on the private shipowner," 101 noting that "congressional adoption of broad statutory language authorizing suit was deliberate and is not to be thwarted by an unduly restrictive interpretation."
102 The Court has since reaffirmed this holding, 103 and federal courts generally have construed the scope of governmental liability under the Public Vessels Act in terms similar if not identical to those by which they have delineated liability under the Suits in Admiralty Act.
104 A recent Supreme Court decision interprets and reconciles these statutes without recourse to or even mention of the strict-construction rule.
105 Another example is furnished by the recent Equal Access to Justice Act, a statute [**368] strikingly similar to the Title VII section here at issue in its provision that the United States shall be liable for reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses "to the same extent that any other party would be liable under the common law or under the terms of any statute which specifically provides for such an award."
106 While one circuit has found that this provision does not permit the award of interest, 107 others have declared categorically that the United States' liability thereunder is the same as private-party liability, 108 and generally have interpreted the statutory language to effect its "plain, clear and common meaning."
109 In light of the extension of such similar doctrine to such a variety of statutes, 110 it cannot reasonably be disputed that the numerous decisions articulating this exception represent not scattered and aberrant caselaw, but a well-established and coherent line of precedent.
111 We think our approach in this case is fully consistent with the purposes of the rule of strict construction.
This rule serves as a tool to calibrate judicial interpretation of purported waivers of sovereign immunity so as to minimize the risk of erroneous imposition of governmental liability under statutes that are ambiguous in scope, or are otherwise susceptible to expansion beyond the boundaries contemplated [**369] by Congress.
112 Strict construction thus ensures that any waiver of sovereign immunity will be a legislative and not a judicial act.
113 When, however, Congress proclaims that the liability of the United States shall be the same as for a comparably-situated private individual--by enacting either an explicit provision to that effect or a sweeping waiver of immunity--the strict-construction rule poses a grave threat to effectuation of congressional purpose, and hence it should not be and is not applied.
In such cases, courts interpret the waiver according to the plain and ordinary meaning of its language.
The strict construction rule does not authorize judges to act as "self-constituted guardian[s] of the Treasury [to] import immunity back into a statute designed to limit it."
114 Having determined that the doctrine we invoke constitutes a purposeful as well as an entrenched exception to the strict-construction rule, it remains only to consider whether the interest rule cedes a similar exception in cases involving statutes such as the Title VII section here under scrutiny.
We conclude that it does, notwithstanding that almost all decisions articulating the doctrine have done so solely at the expense of the strict-construction rule.
Apart from the absence of caselaw contradicting or disallowing application of the doctrine in interest-rule cases, the Supreme Court's decision in Standard Oil Company v. United States 115 adds weight to the conclusion that the principle of liberal construction applies as much to the interest rule as it does to other manifestations of sovereign immunity.
There the Court held the United States liable for interest despite the absence of an express waiver therefor, and solely on the ground that by acting as a private insurer it had without more consented to be treated as a private insurer.
116 This rationale bears a close resemblance to that underpinning the exception at issue, thus counseling inclusion of the interest rule within its ambit.
We recognize, too, that the interest and strict-construction rules achieve similar objectives within the realm of sovereign immunity.
Each operates hand-in-glove with the general rule that the United States cannot be held monetarily liable without its consent.
The interest rule ensures that the United States will incur liability for interest only at the will of Congress, while the strict-construction principle operates similarly, though [**370] more broadly, to curtail judicial extension of governmental liability beyond the range of likely congressional intent.
Consequently, just as the strict-construction rule is obviated by statutes effecting sweeping waivers of immunity or otherwise equating governmental liability with that of private persons, so do we decline to use the interest rule in the case at bar as an instrument for insertion of unintended qualifications and refinements into an otherwise plain and unambiguous statutory mandate.
The applicability of this doctrine in interest-rule cases thus established, we must, finally, determine whether the statutory provision upon which the District Court grounded its assessment of the disputed attorneys' fee against the United States fits within the confines of the exception, and we hold that it does.
When Congress declared that "the United States shall be liable for costs the same as a private person," it revealed unmistakably its intention to subject the United States to treatment no different from that accorded private parties in equivalent circumstances.
Title VII's attorneys'-fee provision thus measures the waiver of immunity in terms essentially identical to those in statutes already held to be governed by the doctrine. 117 We conclude, as a result, that the contours of this mandate must be delineated by ordinary and reasonable, not express or strict, judicial construction.
Under such an interpretation, we think it manifest that the attorneys'-fee section implements the overarching congressional purpose to accord "'[a]ggrieved [federal] employees or applicants the full rights available in the courts as are granted to individuals in the private sector under title VII.'"
118 Since claimants in private-sector Title VII cases may garner interest as one component of an attorneys'-fee award--itself defined as a part of "costs" 119 --we cannot sanction a variant doctrine of liability for the United States.
We find that the District Court did not err when it fashioned an assessment of interest against the United States.
120 VI We affirm, on the alternative grounds explicated, the District Court's decision to allow a 30 percent upward adjustment in the lodestar to compensate counsel for the delay in receipt of payment for the legal services he rendered under Title VII.
We [**371] modify the court's order to correct a mathematical error in its computation of the lodestar, 121 and remand solely in order that the court may confirm that Shaw's counsel is not being paid twice for the delay he experienced.
122 If, in calculating the lodestar for counsel's services, the court utilized an hourly rate which reflected a reasonable charge to clients who pay their attorneys when billed, the court's order as modified will stand, and the Library must remit to counsel $2,524.50, the portion of the court's attorneys'-fee award contested on appeal.
123 If, instead, the lodestar was based on a reasonable hourly rate for services rendered under a fee-shifting statute, that rate has already taken into account the pecuniary disadvantage resulting from the lengthy wait for payment, and the court's upward adjustment to the lodestar therefore was inappropriate since it would result in double payment for the delay in receiving his money.
So ordered .
