 HEANEY , Circuit Judge.
These appeals by James and Mary Ahlers raise important questions of bankruptcy law, particularly as that law relates to farmers who have filed petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code.
We hold that the bankruptcy court may, as a condition to maintaining a stay of proceedings by creditors against the debtors' property, require that the debtors furnish adequate protection to the secured creditors to protect against further loss to those creditors.
Adequate protection is to be determined on a case-by-case basis by the bankruptcy court in accordance with the following guidelines: (1) protection is ordinarily to be given for the interim period beginning with the date that the secured creditor could, under state law, obtain possession of the collateral, sell that property, and reinvest the proceeds, and ending with the date that the plan of reorganization is confirmed or dismissed; (2) the value of the property is to be determined as of the date that adequate protection payments are required; (3) crops in the ground, to the extent that they are not otherwise encumbered, may serve in whole or in part as a basis for adequate protection; and (4) payment for such protection may be made after the crop is harvested rather than on a monthly basis.
The bankruptcy court should not approve a plan of reorganization unless it is feasible.
In determining feasibility, the court should recognize existing realities, that is, the values of the land, the equipment, and the inventory as of the date that the plan is confirmed.
Thus, the secured debt should be restructured to reflect values as of the date of confirmation.
The bankruptcy court should not approve the plan unless it appears reasonably probable that the farmer can pay the restructured secured debt, over a reasonable period of time, at a reasonable rate of interest, in the light of farm prices and farm programs as of the date of confirmation.
To insure that the plan is fair and equitable and protects the unsecured creditors, the plan should require that any cash flow from the operation of the farm in excess of that anticipated in the plan be paid to the unsecured creditors on a pro rata basis, until such time as the unsecured creditors are paid in full without interest.
Moreover, the plan should require that if the land is sold during the pendency of the plan, and if the unsecured creditors have not been paid in full before that date, any proceeds exceeding those necessary to pay the secured debt be shared on an equitable basis between the debtor and the unsecured creditors.
Finally, the court should not permit the prejudgment seizure of equipment and machinery necessary to carry out the plan even if the creditors offer to post a bond.
We recognize that, under a plan of reorganization, secured creditors become unsecured to the extent that their allowed claim exceeds the value of their interest in the collateral.
We hold, however, that neither these nor other unsecured creditors can prevent the plan from being approved on the basis of the absolute priority rule if the plan meets the requirements outlined herein and if the debtor agrees to contribute his experience, knowledge, and labor to the successful implementation of the plan.
I. BACKGROUND .
James and Mary Ahlers farm approximately 840 acres of land in Nobles County, Minnesota.
They own 560 acres, and rent the remaining 280 acres.
To finance their operation, they entered into four separate financing agreements with the Federal Land Bank between December, 1965, and January, 1982.
To secure these loans, the Ahlers gave the Federal Land Bank a first mortgage on four separate parcels of their farmland.
These parcels of land, and the principal balances of the loans they secured as of November 30, 1984, are as follows: Parcels Principal Balance Parcel A (240 acres) $335,403 Parcel B (160 acres) $152,168 Parcel C (80 acres) $ 31,500 Parcel D (80 acres) $ 6,783 The Federal Land Bank's security interests are not cross-collateralized.
The Ahlers also entered into several financing agreements with the Norwest Bank of Worthington, Minnesota ("Norwest") between May, 1982, and April, 1984.
To secure these loans, the Ahlers gave Norwest a second mortgage on their farmland, and a first mortgage on their machinery and equipment, crops, livestock, and other farm proceeds.
As of November 30, 1984, the Ahlers owed Norwest $450,468 in principal and accrued interest.
Norwest's security interests are all cross-collateralized.
The Ahlers also owe John Deere Credit Corporation $35,791, secured by a combine, the Commodity Credit Corporation $3,337, secured by a grain bin, and General Motors $2,900, secured by an automobile.
The value of land in southwest Minnesota 1 and the value of used farm machinery have both declined markedly since the Ahlers entered into the financing agreements outlined above.
Moreover, commodity prices have declined, and inclement weather has frequently played havoc with yields.
Thus, the Ahlers have been unable to make payments on interest and principal, and the secured creditors are substantially undersecured.
On November 16, 1984, Norwest commenced a replevin action against the Ahlers in state court to recover possession of the Ahlers' equipment and machinery pursuant to Minn.Stat.Ann.
565.23 (West Cum.Supp.1985).
Fourteen days later, the Ahlers filed a petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. 101 et seq.
, thereby staying the state court replevin proceedings.
See 11 U.S.C. 362(a) .
Norwest and the Federal Land Bank filed motions for relief from the automatic stay and for adequate protection.
On February 27, 1985, the bankruptcy court held an evidentiary hearing on these motions.
In an order issued March 15, 1985, the bankruptcy court stated that Norwest and the Federal Land Bank, as undersecured creditors, were In re Ahlers , No. 3-84-2206, slip op. at 5 (Bankr.Minn.
March 15, 1985).
It then held that the Ahlers would be required to make monthly payments of interest on the current value of the collateral in order to maintain the section 362 stay.
It decided that the Ahlers' offer of a lien on the following year's crops did not constitute adequate protection, and that the Ahlers did not otherwise have sufficient funds to provide Norwest and the Federal Land Bank with adequate protection in the form of monthly interest payments on the value of the collateral.
For these reasons, it granted the motions for relief from the automatic stay.
2 The Ahlers appealed this order to the district court.
It affirmed on October 22, 1985.
In addition, pursuant to this Court's August 8, 1985, order, the district court reviewed the feasibility of the Ahlers' reorganization plan and found that the plan had no reasonable prospect of success.
Eleven days after the bankruptcy court had entered its March 15, 1985, order granting Norwest's and the Federal Land Bank's motions for relief from the section 362 stay, the Ahlers removed Norwest's replevin action from state court to the bankruptcy court.
The bankruptcy court, concerned that the state replevin action was not a core proceeding, indicated that it might abstain and remand the replevin action to the state district court unless the parties consented to the bankruptcy court's jurisdiction over the matter.
On May 24, 1985, the Ahlers and Norwest stipulated that the replevin action was a core proceeding, which could be heard and determined by the bankruptcy court.
See 28 U.S.C. 157(c)(2) .
Thereafter, Norwest filed a motion in the bankruptcy court for prejudgment seizure of the property, together with an offer of bond, pursuant to Minn.Stat.Ann.
565.23 and 565.25 (West Cum.Supp.1985).
On June 25, 1985, the bankruptcy court held a hearing on Norwest's motion, and on July 8, 1985, entered an order granting this motion.
The Ahlers appealed this order, and on October 28, 1985, the district court affirmed.
The Ahlers now appeal from the district court's October 22 and October 28 orders.
They contend that the bankruptcy court erred in granting Norwest and the Federal Land Bank relief from the section 362 stay.
They also appeal the October 28 order, contending that the Minnesota replevin statute is unconstitutional, and that the bankruptcy court did not have jurisdiction to rule on Norwest's motion for prejudgment seizure pursuant to that statute.
II.
DISCUSSION .
A. The district court erred in defining the elements of adequate protection .
The filing of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition results in an automatic stay of all acts by creditors to enforce their liens against the debtor's property.
11 U.S.C. 362(a) .
The purpose is twofold: first, to give the debtor a "breathing spell" from his creditors; 3 and second, to prevent one creditor from rushing to enforce its lien to the detriment of the other creditors.
4 The impact of the automatic stay is tempered by certain creditor safeguards, one of which is the secured creditor's right to adequate protection of its interest during the bankruptcy proceedings.
11 U.S.C. 362(d) .
Although adequate protection is not specifically defined in the Bankruptcy Code, Congress intended that a debtor's offer of adequate protection should, as nearly as possible under the circumstances of the case, provide the creditor with its bargained-for rights.
In re Briggs Transportation Co. , 780 F.2d 1339 (8th Cir.1985); In re Martin , 761 F.2d 472, 476 (8th Cir.1985); see also H.R.Rep.
No. 595, 95th Cong., 1st Sess.
339, reprinted in 1978 U.S.Code Cong. & Ad.News 5963, 6295 ("the purpose of [adequate protection] is to ensure that the secured creditor receives in value essentially what he bargained for").
However, Congress expressly did not state how these bargained for rights were to be valued, nor when this valuation was to occur.
H.R.Rep.
No. 595 at 339, 1978 U.S.Code Cong. & Ad.News at 6295.
Thus, while it is agreed that a secured creditor should receive adequate protection of its interest during an automatic stay, any adequate protection determination must necessarily turn on the unique facts presented in each individual case. See, e.g. , In re Briggs , 780 F.2d at 1348 .
These factual findings are subject to the clearly erroneous standard of review, In re Martin , 761 F.2d at 474 ; Bankr.R.
7052 , and to this Court's right to correct errors of law.
Martin , 761 F.2d at 475 (quoting Bose Corp. v. Consumer Union of United States, Inc. , 466 U.S. 485, 501 , 104 S.Ct. 1949, 1960 , 80 L.Ed.2d 502 (1984)).
5 1.
The starting date for adequate-protection payments .
The bankruptcy court held that the Federal Land Bank and Norwest were entitled to adequate protection payments in the form of interest on the value of the collateral securing their loans.
This conclusion was based upon the premise that due to the automatic stay, the Federal Land Bank and Norwest were unable to immediately foreclose, liquidate the collateral, and reinvest the liquidation proceeds.
See In re American Mariner Industries, Inc. , 734 F.2d 426 (9th Cir.1984).
It held that the Federal Land Bank was entitled to monthly adequate protection interest payments as of January 1, 1985 (date of the Ahlers' post-petition default on the Federal Land Bank loans), and that Norwest was entitled to monthly adequate protection interest payments as of February 27, 1985 (date of the evidentiary hearing).
It found that the Ahlers did not have sufficient funds to make these monthly payments, and that a lien on the following year's crops could not constitute adequate protection.
Accordingly, it granted the Federal Land Bank's and Norwest's motions for relief from the automatic stay.
A secured creditor is entitled to adequate protection of its security interest.
That protection may include compensation to a creditor, in the form of post-petition interest payments, for the delay in enforcing the creditor's foreclosure rights.
In re Briggs Transp. Co. , 780 F.2d 1339, 1350 (8th Cir.1985).
Thus, we cannot say as a matter of law that the bankruptcy court erred in requiring post-petition interest payments.
The question, then, is the timing and amount of these payments.
The concept of providing a secured creditor with adequate protection in the form of interest on the value of the collateral is premised on the theory that a secured creditor bargains for the right to take possession of the collateral and sell it in the event that the debtor defaults.
American Mariner , 734 F.2d at 435 (this right constitutes an "interest in property" that is "created and defined by state law").
To the extent that a debtor can, by filing a bankruptcy petition, preclude or delay a secured creditor from exercising this right and reinvesting the liquidation proceeds, the creditor has been deprived of this benefit of its bargain.
Thus, adequate protection payments in the form of interest are designed to insure that the secured creditor receives the benefit of its bargain by placing it in essentially the position it would have been in absent the filing of a bankruptcy petition.
See H.R.Rep.
No. 595 at 339, 1978 U.S.Code Cong. & Ad.News at 6295.
Accordingly, in fashioning adequate protection payments, the bankruptcy court must determine the date when the creditor, absent the filing of a bankruptcy petition, could have taken possession of the collateral under state law and could have sold it to a third party, the amount that the creditor would have realized at this sale, and the creditor's expected return upon reinvestment.
Payments to protect the creditor's right to reinvestment return on foreclosure proceeds should not begin until, under state law, the creditor could have taken possession of the collateral, sold it to a third party, and reinvested the proceeds.
American Mariner , 734 F.2d at 435 n. 12 ("to avoid overcompensating the secured creditor, the timing of adequate protection should take account of the usual time and expense involved in repossession and sale of collateral.
"); see also In re Bear Creek Ministorage, Inc. , 49 B.R. 454, 458-59 (Bankr.S.D.Tex.1985); In re South Village, Inc. , 25 B.R. 987, 996 n. 14 (Bankr.Utah 1982).
Before the bankruptcy court considers the usual foreclosure delays associated with the particular collateral involved, it must first determine the date to which these delays will be added.
If the secured creditor has commenced foreclosure proceedings prior to the filing of the bankruptcy petition, the starting date should be the date foreclosure proceedings were commenced.
If, however, the secured creditor has not commenced foreclosure proceedings prior to the filing of the bankruptcy petition, the starting date should be the date that the creditor moves for adequate protection in the bankruptcy court.
6 To the appropriate date, the bankruptcy court should add the usual foreclosure delays associated with the particular collateral involved.
With respect to the farmland, Minnesota law provides that six-weeks published notice must be given before a foreclosure sale.
Minn.Stat.Ann.
580.03 (West 1947).
In addition, the mortgagor has the exclusive right to redeem the realty for twelve months following the foreclosure sale.
7 Minn.Stat.Ann.
580.23 , subd.
2, and 580.24 (West Cum.Supp.1985).
During this twelve-month redemption period, the mortgagor is entitled to possession, rents, and profits of the real estate.
Johnson v. First National Bank of Montevideo , 719 F.2d 270, 276 (8th Cir.1983), cert. denied , 465 U.S. 1012 , 104 S.Ct. 1015 , 79 L.Ed.2d 245 (1984).
Because the purchaser at a mortgage foreclosure sale would not be entitled to possession and profits from the real estate until after the redemption period had expired, it is extremely unlikely that a third party would purchase the property at the foreclosure sale.
Moreover, Minnesota law prohibits the inclusion in a mortgage instrument of any provision under which rents and profits arising from the mortgaged property after default are assigned to the mortgagee.
Erickson-Hellekson-Vye Co. v. A. Wells Co. , 217 Minn. 361 , 15 N.W.2d 162 (1944).
8 Thus, assuming that Norwest and the Federal Land Bank follow reasonable and established marketing techniques, they will purchase the realty themselves at the foreclosure sale, and then attempt to resell the property after the redemption period has expired, if the Ahlers have not exercised their redemption rights.
Since their right to foreclosure and to reinvest the liquidation proceeds would give them no financial benefit until the land could be resold to a third party, which at the earliest would be one year and six weeks from the date the foreclosure proceedings were commenced, the Ahlers' adequate protection payments to protect this right to reinvestment returns on foreclosure proceeds should not begin until that date.
See, e.g. , Bear Creek Ministorage , 49 B.R. at 457-58 .
If no foreclosure proceedings were commenced before the filing of the bankruptcy proceeding, the adequate protection payments would begin one year and six weeks after the adequate-protection motion was filed by the creditor.
Under Minnesota law, Norwest would be permitted to take possession of the farm machinery and equipment promptly unless the debtor is dependent on the use of the property to earn a living.
In that event, the debtor is permitted to retain the property for a period of time if he insures it and makes payments essentially similar to what he would be required to make under the Bankruptcy Act.
Minn.Stat.Ann.
565.251 (West Supp.1986).
It follows that adequate protection payments for farm machinery equipment should begin promptly on application therefor.
Secured collateral such as livestock and grain in storage may be readily liquidated without any significant delay, and, hence, adequate protection payments on these items should also begin on application.
2.
The date of valuation of collateral for adequate-protection purposes .
Congress specifically left open the question of the date of valuation.
See p. , infra .
The bankruptcy court determined that values for purposes of adequate protection were to be fixed as of the date the petition was filed.
While this decision is appropriate with respect to the livestock and grain in storage, which, under state law, could have been sold immediately, it is inappropriate with respect to the collateral that could not have been sold immediately.
That collateral should be valued at the time it could have been sold under state law as discussed in section II.A.1 of this opinion.
Even if this timing error were ignored, the bankruptcy court's findings as to the values of the land and equipment were clearly erroneous.
In making his decision, it failed to take into account the fact that land values had declined by at least twenty-four percent in the twelve-month period immediately preceding the filing of the petition in bankruptcy.
9 There is likewise no support in the record for the bankruptcy court's statement that the debtor based his opinion as to value on conjecture.
10 The bankruptcy court will redetermine these values on remand.
3.
Timing of periodic-protection payments .
The bankruptcy court ruled that the Ahlers must make adequate-protection payments monthly to maintain the automatic stay.
This ruling ignores the cyclical nature of agriculture.
A grain farmer's income is not dependent upon a monthly paycheck, but rather upon the harvest of his crops at the end of the growing season.
Likewise, a hog farmer's income is realized when the hogs are sold.
Thus, adequate protection payments in the Ahlers' case should not be due until they have harvested their crops and sold their hogs.
11 4.
The use of growing crops as adequate protection .
We next address the bankruptcy court's ruling that the Ahlers' offer of a lien on the following year's crop could not constitute adequate protection.
This issue was thoroughly addressed in In re Martin , 761 F.2d 472 (8th Cir.1985), in which we held that a lien on a future crop, to the extent that the crop was otherwise not encumbered, may serve in whole or in part as a basis for providing adequate protection.
We also outlined a nonexclusive list of factors the bankruptcy court should consider in making this determination.
Id. at 477 .
Thus, the bankruptcy court's ruling was contrary to the law of this circuit.
B. The district court erred in holding that reorganization under Chapter 11 is unfeasible .
Norwest and the Federal Land Bank contend that even assuming their interests were adequately protected during the automatic stay, they were entitled to relief from the stay under 11 U.S.C. 362(d)(2)(B) because the Ahlers' reorganization plan was not feasible.
Section 362(d) provides: subsection (a) subsection (a) 11 U.S.C. 362(d) .
Several courts have interpreted the "necessary for an effective reorganization" language in section 362(d)(2) (B) to require a debtor to not only show that the property in question is essential to the reorganization plan, but also that an effective reorganization is realistically possible.
See, e.g. , In re Albany Partners, Ltd. , 749 F.2d 670, 673 n. 7 (11th Cir.1984); In re Discount Wallpaper Center, Inc. , 19 B.R. 221, 222 (Bankr.M.D.Fla.1982); In re Dublin Properties , 12 B.R. 77, 80 (Bankr.E.D.Pa.1981), and cases cited therein.
As the court stated in Dublin Properties , "If no reorganization of the debtor is feasible, then no property of that debtor can be necessary for that end."
12 B.R. at 80 .
We have no quarrel with these decisions.
The district court, pursuant to this Court's August 8, 1985, order, reviewed the feasibility of the Ahlers' reorganization plan.
It analyzed the plan on the basis of the factors outlined in United Properties, Inc. v. Emporium Department Stores, Inc. , 379 F.2d 55, 66-71 (8th Cir.1967), 12 and found that the plan was utterly unfeasible because (1) the debtor's current liabilities exceeded his current assets by a substantial margin, and (2) the debtor could not, in the light of his past experience and current or anticipated farm programs, be expected to operate profitably with a significant cash flow.
Although the district court's feasibility determination is subject to the clearly erroneous standard of review, id. at 63-64 , "an appellate court has the power to correct errors of law, including 'a finding of fact that is predicated on a misunderstanding of the governing rule of law.'"
Martin , 761 F.2d at 475 (quoting Bose Corp. v. Consumer Union of United States, Inc. , 466 U.S. 485, 501 , 104 S.Ct. 1949, 1960 , 80 L.Ed.2d 502 (1984).
The district court's feasibility finding was predicated on a misunderstanding of the applicable law in that the district court failed to determine the value of the collateral, and therefore the amount of the secured creditors' allowed secured claims, independent of the bankruptcy court's adequate protection valuation.
For purposes of the reorganization plan, the value of the collateral is to be determined at the time for confirmation of that plan.
An initial valuation for adequate protection purposes is not res judicata for purposes of determining the value of the collateral, and thus the allowed secured claims of the creditors, under a reorganization plan.
See 11 U.S.C. 506(a) .
11 U.S.C. 506(a) sections 361-363 S.Rep.
No. 989 at 68, U.S.Code Cong. & Ad.News at 5854.
This revaluation is particularly important when, as in this case, the evidence demonstrates that the collateral decreased in value after the adequate protection valuation.
Accordingly, because the district court failed to revalue the collateral in determining the feasibility of the Ahlers' reorganization plan, its feasibility finding was based on a misunderstanding of the applicable law.
Under these circumstances, it is appropriate to remand the case so that findings may be made applying the correct legal standards, and we need not address the issue of whether the district court's feasibility finding was clearly erroneous.
Martin , 761 F.2d at 475 .
13 We note, however, that our review of the record leads us to believe that the Ahlers may be able to propose a feasible reorganization plan.
While the Ahlers' current liabilities do exceed their current assets, it appears probable that once their secured debt is restructured to reflect present values of land and equipment as Section 506(a) requires, they can repay that debt over a reasonable period of time with interest and make substantial payments to unsecured creditors.
(The banks will hold more than ninety-five percent of the unsecured debt.)
The basis for this conclusion is set forth in Appendix A to this opinion.
In brief, the Ahlers, on the basis of the record before us and current farm prices and programs, can reasonably expect an annual income of $126,500 per year from their farming operations.
This sum would be disbursed essentially as follows: to FLB as payments on secured debt on land of $306,000 (30 years at 12.5%) $ 38,500 to Norwest as payments on secured debt on land of $89,000 (30 years at 12.5%) $ 11,500 to Norwest, John Deere, and Commodity Credit Corporation as payments on secured debt on personal property of $94,000 (6 years at 10%) $ 21,500 to GMAC on secured debt of $3,000 (3 years at 10%) $ 1,200 Ahlers' living expenses $ 11,500 tax and priority claims $ 4,500 unsecured claims (This sum would be increased to $29,500 per year after 6 years.)
$ 37,800 ------ $126,500 Our conclusion is, of course, based on the record before this Court at this time, and is not intended to bind the bankruptcy court on remand.
On remand, the debtors will be permitted to amend their proposed plan, within thirty days of the receipt of this opinion, to reflect the law as stated in this opinion.
If an amended plan is presented, the bankruptcy court will hold hearings on the plan and confirm or reject it on the basis of current data as to land and equipment values, interest rates, and farm prices and programs.
C. The absolute priority rule does not prevent this reorganization .
Norwest and the Federal Land Bank contend that they are entitled to relief from the automatic stay because any feasible reorganization plan submitted by the Ahlers could not be confirmed.
They argue that because their claims are substantially undersecured, any reorganization plan would treat a portion of their claims as unsecured.
11 U.S.C. 506(a) .
As a class of unsecured creditors, they insist that they would not accept a reorganization plan, because the Ahlers could not pay the unsecured claims in full.
Thus, they contend that the plan could not be confirmed under 11 U.S.C. 1129(a)(8)(A) .
Furthermore, Norwest and the Federal Land Bank argue that the Ahlers would not be successful in having the plan confirmed over their objections under 11 U.S.C. 1129(b) .
They insist that because the Ahlers could not pay their unsecured claims in full, and because the Ahlers would retain an interest in the farm under a reorganization plan, the plan would not satisfy the "fair and equitable" requirement of section 1129(b)(1) .
Because Norwest and the Federal Land Bank have, to this point, expressed their unwillingness to accept any plan under section 1129(a) , we will examine whether a plan may be confirmed over their objections under section 1129(b) .
Section 1129(b)(1) provides that a bankruptcy court shall, at the request of the debtor or other proponent, confirm a Chapter 11 plan over the objection of a class of creditors if the plan does not discriminate unfairly and is fair and equitable with respect to each class of creditors that has not accepted the plan.
11 U.S.C. 1129(a)(1) .
Section 1129(b)(2) establishes the standards for determining whether a plan is "fair and equitable."
It adopts three different tests to determine whether a plan is fair and equitable, depending on whether the dissenting class is comprised of secured claims, unsecured claims, or ownership interests.
See generally 11 U.S.C. 1129(b)(2)(A) -(C).
1.
Secured claims .
With respect to a class of secured claims, a plan may provide section 363(k) clause (i) 11 U.S.C. 1129(b)(2)(A) .
Under subparagraph (i) the plan may be confirmed if the secured creditors retain a lien securing the amount of their allowed secured claims 14 and they receive deferred cash payments having a present value, as of the effective date of the plan, equal to the present value of the collateral.
15 Alternatively, the plan may be confirmed under subparagraph (ii) if the plan proposes to sell the collateral free and clear of the secured parties' liens, as long as the lien will attach to the sale proceeds and will receive treatment under subparagraph (i) or (iii).
Finally, subparagraph (iii) permits confirmation if the plan provides for the realization by the dissenting class of secured creditors of the indubitable equivalent of their claims.
The legislative history to this subparagraph states that abandonment of the collateral to the secured creditor would clearly satisfy indubitable equivalence, as would a lien in similar collateral.
124 Cong.Rec.
H32 ,407 (daily ed. Sept. 28, 1978) (statement by Rep.
Don Edwards).
Assuming that the Ahlers' reorganization plan proposes that they remain on the farm and continue to use the secured collateral in their farming operation, the plan must, to be confirmed over the dissent of the secured creditors, propose that the secured creditors retain a lien in the collateral securing the amount of their allowed secured claims, and that they receive deferred cash payments having a present value equal to the value of the collateral securing their claims as of the effective date of the plan.
11 U.S.C. 1129(b)(2)(A) (i).
If the plan also proposes to pay the secured creditors a reasonable rate of interest on their allowed secured claims, the present value and face future value will be identical.
See H.R.Rep.
No. 595 at 414-15, 1978 U.S.Code Cong. & Ad.News at 6370-71.
2.
Unsecured claims .
With respect to a class of dissenting unsecured creditors, a plan will be "fair and equitable" if one of two tests is satisfied.
First, the plan may provide that each unsecured creditor in the class receive or retain property having a value, as of the effective date of the plan, equal to the allowed amount of its claim.
11 U.S.C. 1129(b)(2)(B)(i) .
Norwest and the Federal Land Bank contend, and we agree, that any realistic reorganization plan proposed by the Ahlers could not provide the unsecured creditors with property equal to the amount of their allowed claims.
Thus, any feasible plan would not meet the "fair and equitable" standard of section 1129(b)(2) (B)(i).
Alternatively, the plan may provide any treatment for the class of unsecured creditors, including no participation at all, 16 as long as no junior claims or interests participate in the plan or retain an interest in the debtor's property.
11 U.S.C. 1129(b)(2)(B)(ii) .
Norwest and the Federal Land Bank contend that because the Ahlers could not provide the unsecured creditors with property equal to the allowed amount of their claims, any non-liquidation plan would not satisfy the "fair and equitable" standard of section 1129(b)(2) (B)(ii).
They argue that under any reorganization plan, the Ahlers would retain an equitable ownership interest, which is junior to the unsecured creditors' claims, without providing for the unsecured creditors in full.
We do not agree that retention of this equitable ownership interest is fatal to the Ahlers' plan being "fair and equitable" under section 1129(b)(2) (B)(ii).
Section 1129(b)(2) (B) essentially applies a modified version of the traditional absolute priority rule, which was initially established in Northern Pacific Railway v. Boyd , 228 U.S. 482 , 33 S.Ct. 554 , 57 L.Ed. 931 (1913).
See 3 Norton, Bankruptcy Law & Practice 63.21 (1985).
Simply stated, the absolute priority rule provides that a dissenting class of unsecured creditors must be provided for in full before any junior class can receive or retain any property under the plan.
However, in cases decided after Boyd , the Supreme Court specifically recognized that there may be circumstances in which the absolute priority rule could be modified to allow a junior ownership interest to participate in the reorganization plan even though dissenting senior creditors may receive less than their allowed claims.
In Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products Co. , 308 U.S. 106 , 60 S.Ct. 1 , 84 L.Ed. 110 (1939), the Court stated: Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. Boyd supra 228 U.S. 482 33 S.Ct. 554 57 L.Ed. 931 Kansas City Terminal Ry. Co. v. Central Union Trust Co. supra 271 U.S. 445 46 S.Ct. 549 70 L.Ed. 1028 Id. at 121 , 60 S.Ct. at 10 (footnote omitted).
The Court continued by stating that if these conditions were satisfied, or in money's worth Id. at 122 , 60 S.Ct. at 10 (footnotes omitted) (emphasis added).
In the Kansas City Terminal Railway case cited by the Court in Case , the Supreme Court stated: Kansas City Terminal Railway , 271 U.S. at 455 , 46 S.Ct. at 551-52 .
See also Sophian v. Congress Realty Co. , 98 F.2d 499, 502 (8th Cir.1938) ("to justify retention of stock interests by stockholders of debtor it must appear that they have furnished some compensatory additional consideration or have an equity interest in the estate of the debtor after the rights of creditors are fully provided for"); In re U.S. Truck Co. , 47 B.R. 932, 940-41 (E.D.Mich.1985): In re Marston Enterprises, Inc. , 13 B.R. 514, 517-18 (Bankr.E.D.N.Y.1981) (contribution of new capital necessary to fund reorganization plan in return for participation in reorganization plan did not violate "fair and equitable" rule, even though intervening classes of creditors received nothing under the plan).
Thus, a more accurate summation of the absolute priority rule would be that a dissenting class of unsecured creditors must be provided for in full before any junior class may receive or retain any property under the plan, unless the junior class contributes to the reorganization enterprise something that is reasonably compensatory and is measurable.
Certainly, a farmer's efforts in operating and managing his farm is essential to any successful farm reorganization, and this yearly contribution is measurable in money or money's worth.
Moreover, the reorganization value of the Ahlers' farm exceeds its liquidation value--if the plan is rejected, the unsecured creditors will get nothing, whereas they will receive annual payments if the plan is approved and is successful.
The Ahlers' farm operation and management skills are something of a value which would disappear if their farm was liquidated.
Because that value cannot be captured for creditors in the event of liquidation, fairness is not violated if their Chapter 11 plan leaves that value in their hands.
This view also recognizes the broad rehabilitative purposes of the Bankruptcy Act--to give a debtor with a reasonable chance of success an opportunity for a fresh start.
Any other view would deny to most farmers the opportunity to take advantage of the reorganization provisions of the Bankruptcy Act.
Accordingly, the farmer should be entitled to participate in the plan to the extent of this contribution, even though more senior claims are not provided for in full under the plan.
The only remaining question, therefore, is whether the farmer's new contribution is reasonably equivalent to the equitable ownership interest the farmer would retain under the plan.
We recognize that there is no mathematical formula which the bankruptcy court can apply to make this determination, and that this determination must necessarily depend on the facts in each case.
However, the value of the farmer's labor, including the value of his experience and expertise in farming the land, should not be overly difficult to determine.
Valuing the retained equitable ownership interest, however, is a more difficult problem.
In In re U.S. Truck the court stated that in determining the general worth of the retained interest, a court must necessarily make determinations regarding the future of the debtor as reorganized, and its possible profits.
47 B.R. at 941-42 (citing In re Landau Boat Co. , 13 B.R. 788 (Bankr.W.D.Mo.1981)).
In Landau Boat the creditors argued that the shareholders were retaining equity value without consideration because the debtor corporation, as an ongoing business, was worth more than the shareholders' new contribution.
The court in Landau Boat stated: 13 B.R. at 792-93 (quoting Consolidated Rock Products v. DuBois , 312 U.S. 510, 526 , 61 S.Ct. 675, 685 , 85 L.Ed. 982 (1941)).
The court found that the debtors' corporation had the potential to be profitable.
Landau Boat , 13 B.R. at 793 .
However, after considering the debtor's financial needs, including debt service, the state of the economy, and the fact that the debtor was in a highly competitive business, the court concluded that the probability of the debtor making a real profit in the next few years was unlikely.
Id.
Thus, the court found that the new investors were making a substantial investment which exceeded any value that could be realized from the business in the near future.
Id.
Applying these principles to the present case, the Ahlers would not realize any real profit or benefit from their retained equitable ownership interest until the reorganization plan was completed and the secured creditors had been paid the full amount of their allowed secured claims.
At this time, the equitable ownership interest would mature.
Thus, if the bankruptcy court determines that the value of the Ahlers' yearly contributions of labor, experience, and expertise over the life of the plan will equal or exceed the value of the retained ownership interest at maturity, the dissenting unsecured creditors cannot complain that they have not been accorded their full right of priority against the debtors' assets.
17 We recognize, of course, that because the profitability of any reorganization plan cannot be determined with mathematical certitude, the possibility exists that the plan may be more profitable than anticipated.
If so, and if the equitable ownership interest receives this excess profit, the equitable ownership interest may receive more than the value of its contribution.
To avoid this result, the bankruptcy court should require that any cash flow from the operation of the farm in excess of that anticipated in the plan should be paid to the unsecured creditors on a pro rata basis until such time as the unsecured creditors are paid in full without interest.
Similarly, if any secured property is sold during the life of the plan, and if the unsecured creditors have not been paid in full, excluding interest, before that date, the bankruptcy court should require that any amount received in excess of that necessary to pay the secured creditors be shared equitably among the unsecured creditors and the ownership interest, based on its contribution at the time the property is sold.
18 This matter is remanded to the district court with directions that the bankruptcy court take prompt action to comply with this opinion.
19 Each party to this appeal is to bear its own costs.
