 FLETCHER , Circuit Judge: Plaintiff-appellee James V. Bryant brought a Bivens action after his arrest by two agents of the United States Secret Service.
The agents, Jeff Jordan and Brian V. Hunter ("defendants"), bring an interlocutory appeal from the district court's denial in part of their summary judgment motion seeking dismissal based on qualified immunity.
1 Bryant does not cross-appeal other decisions of the district court granting partial summary judgment to these defendants and dismissing other defendants.
FACTS On May 3, 1985, a sergeant from the University of Southern California (USC) campus security telephoned defendant Hunter.
The sergeant told Hunter that Bryant had, earlier that day, delivered two photocopies of a handwritten letter to two USC administrative offices.
2 The sergeant told Hunter that the letter contained references to a plot to murder President Reagan.
The letter describes a large-scale conspiracy by "Communist white men within the National Council of Churches," whom Bryant refers to collectively as "Mr.
Image."
In a rambling discourse the letter describes in general terms and with tangential references a conspiracy directed against black males; it condemns Mr. Image, who is viewed as a destructive influence on black males.
(Bryant is black.)
The letter ends by warning that Mr. Image intended to assassinate Mr. Reagan during his upcoming tour of Germany.
(Mr. Image hoped to install then Vice-President Bush in the White House.)
Hunter read the letter and interviewed the two USC employees who had received the photocopies.
One employee told Hunter that a black man gave her the letter on May 3, 1985, and told her to give it to the director of the USC Budget Office.
She said the man made statements about "bloody coups" and "assassination," and also said something about "across the throat" while simultaneously moving his hand horizontally across his throat.
A second employee told Hunter that she had been given a photocopy of the letter by a man who told her to forward it to the President of USC.
She told Hunter that the man told her "he should have been assassinated in Bonn."
She also told Hunter that the man identified himself as James V. Bryant on a piece of paper he left with her.
Hunter determined that the matter warranted further investigation.
Secret Service agent Jordan was assigned to assist Hunter.
That evening, May 3, 1985, Hunter and Jordan went to a Los Angeles address provided on the letter.
They knocked on the door and announced themselves as law enforcement officers.
Bryant answered the door.
The agents asked if they could enter the residence to speak with Bryant.
Bryant gave the agents permission to enter. Hunter told Bryant that the agents had come because of the photocopied letters.
Bryant admitted writing the letter and leaving the photocopies at USC.
Hunter asked Bryant to identify "Mr. Image," but Bryant responded in a manner Hunter characterized as "rambling and confused," and, according to Hunter "refus[ed]" to identify Mr. Image.
Jordan's declaration is consistent with Hunter's, but neither agent in his declaration quotes Bryant directly.
Hunter asked Bryant for permission to search the residence.
Bryant gave permission.
Hunter found the original letter but no other relevant evidence.
Jordan continued to talk with Bryant, who, according to Jordan, refused to answer questions concerning his attitudes and feelings about the President and refused to state whether he intended to harm the President.
The agents decided to read Bryant his Miranda rights.
Bryant waived his right to remain silent.
The agents again asked him about the identity of Mr. Image.
According to Jordan, "Bryant responded in a rambling and confused fashion, such that I could not discern the identity of Mr. Image or whether there was actually a person known as Mr.
Image."
The agents then told Bryant he was under arrest for threatening to take the life of the President, in violation of 18 U.S.C. 871 .
Bryant was arraigned on May 6, 1985, and ordered held without bail pending a detention hearing.
He was held for approximately fourteen days, until the criminal complaint was dismissed on motion by the government on May 17, 1985.
Bryant initiated his suit in May 1986, and filed an amended complaint on January 27, 1987, alleging causes of action under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA) and a Bivens theory.
On the government's motion, the district court dismissed the FTCA causes of action for lack of jurisdiction and dismissed in its entirety the action against the Secret Service, its director and the Doe defendants.
The only remaining defendants were Hunter and Jordan.
They moved for summary judgment on the ground of qualified immunity.
The district court granted the motion as to some of Bryant's claims, but ruled that defendants were not entitled to qualified immunity on Bryant's Fourth Amendment claims for arrest without probable cause and without a warrant.
The court denied the motion for summary judgment because it decided further fact-finding was necessary.
Defendants appeal from that denial.
DISCUSSION We review a defendant's motion for summary judgment, seeking dismissal on the basis of qualified immunity, de novo applying the same standard as did the trial court.
Baker v. Racansky , 887 F.2d 183, 185 (9th Cir.1989).
The question before the district court was whether a secret service officer, in light of clearly established law at the time of Bryant's arrest on May 3, 1985, reasonably could have believed that the information possessed by the arresting agents constituted probable cause to support an arrest under 18 U.S.C. 871 for threatening the life of the President.
Anderson v. Creighton , 483 U.S. 635 , 107 S.Ct. 3034 , 97 L.Ed.2d 523 (1987); Harlow v. Fitzgerald , 457 U.S. 800 , 102 S.Ct. 2727 , 73 L.Ed.2d 396 (1982).
The district court denied the defendants' motion for summary judgment holding that there were genuine issues of material fact.
Because the relevant legal rule was clearly established at the time of Bryant's arrest, and the district court properly concluded more factfinding was necessary to determine whether a reasonable secret service agent could have believed that the information he possessed constituted probable cause for that arrest, we affirm the denial of summary judgment. 3 Ordinarily a denial of summary judgment is not appealable because it is purely interlocutory.
However, the Court held in Mitchell v. Forsyth , 472 U.S. 511 , 105 S.Ct. 2806 , 86 L.Ed.2d 411 (1985) that qualified immunity should operate to protect government officials from needlessly defending against suits as well as from liability, and that to prohibit appeals from a denial of qualified immunity until after trial would mean that the immunity effectively would be lost.
Appellate review of denial of summary judgment under Mitchell is narrow and purely legal.
This case requires us to decide two issues: first, were the rights clearly established, and if so, is there any genuine issue of material fact as to whether a reasonable officer could believe they were violated.
Qualified immunity is an affirmative defense for which the government official bears the burden of proof.
Harlow v. Fitzgerald , 457 U.S. 800, 815 , 102 S.Ct. 2727, 2736 , 73 L.Ed.2d 396 (1982), Benigni v. City of Hemet , 853 F.2d 1519, 1525 (9th Cir.1988).
As with all summary judgment motions, the evidence should be viewed in the light most favorable to Bryant as the nonmoving party; to prevail on their motion for summary judgment, the defendants must show that they were reasonable in their belief that they had probable cause.
Bryant, however, bears the burden of proving that the right which the defendants allegedly violated was clearly established at the time of their conduct.
Baker , 887 F.2d at 185, 186 .
I. Federal law enforcement officials cannot be held liable for damages under a Bivens theory unless their conduct violates a clearly established constitutional right.
Anderson v. Creighton , 483 U.S. 635 , 107 S.Ct. 3034, 3038-39 , 97 L.Ed.2d 523 (1987); Harlow v. Fitzgerald , 457 U.S. 800, 818 , 102 S.Ct. 2727, 2738 , 73 L.Ed.2d 396 (1982).
As the Supreme Court instructed in Anderson v. Creighton , 107 S.Ct. at 3044 , the operation of the "clearly established law" standard very much depends upon the level of abstraction at which the relevant legal rule is articulated.
The right allegedly violated must not be defined at the level of generality as, for instance, the right to due process of law, for this would "convert the rule of qualified immunity into a rule of virtually unqualified liability."
The right the official is alleged to have violated must have been clearly established "in a more particularized, and hence more relevant sense: the contours of the right must be sufficiently clear that a reasonable official would understand that what he is doing violates that right."
Id. at 3039 .
18 U.S.C. 871(a) , the statute under which Bryant was arrested, provides: The statute has been construed to require consideration of both the text or the words themselves as well as the context in which they were delivered.
Roy v. United States , 416 F.2d 874 (9th Cir.1969); United States v. Moncrief , 462 F.2d 762 (9th Cir.1972).
In order for a secret service agent reasonably to have believed he had cause to arrest Bryant, the agent must have been reasonable in his belief that Bryant's words and the context in which he delivered them were a serious threat against the president.
Watts v. United States , 394 U.S. 705 , 89 S.Ct. 1399 , 22 L.Ed.2d 664 (1969).
The dissent suggests that this is a vague standard that cannot constitute "clearly established law."
It suggests that further case law would be necessary to flesh out what constitutes "probable cause" for violation of the statute before the standard could be regarded as "clearly established."
We disagree.
This standard is capable of understanding and practical application by law enforcement officers.
A statute requiring a knowing or willful threat, interpreted for 20 years to mean "a serious expression of an intention to inflict bodily harm upon or to take the life of the President," Roy , 416 F.2d at 877 , is not a vague standard like "due process."
II.
Whether a reasonable officer could have believed he had probable cause is a question for the trier of fact, and summary judgment or a directed verdict in a 1983 action based on lack of probable cause is proper only if there is only one reasonable conclusion a jury could reach.
Kennedy v. L.A.
Police Department , 887 F.2d 920, 924 (9th Cir.1989), McKenzie v. Lamb , 738 F.2d 1005, 1008 (9th Cir.1984).
Because qualified immunity protects government officials from suit as well as from liability, it is essential that qualified immunity claims be resolved at the earliest possible stage of litigation.
Mitchell 472 U.S. at 526 , 105 S.Ct. at 2815 .
This necessarily expands the factfinding role that must be played by the district court judge.
In some cases, district courts will be able to establish entitlement to qualified immunity before trial and, sometimes, even before discovery.
See, e.g. , Ortiz v. Van Auken , 887 F.2d 1366 (9th Cir.1989) (reversing district court's denial of summary judgment based on claim of qualified immunity, finding that officer who obtained search warrant from judge was entitled to qualified immunity in civil rights action); Baker v. Racansky , 887 F.2d 183 (9th Cir.1989) (reversing district court's denial of summary judgment on the basis of qualified immunity, finding that alleged conduct did not violate clearly established law), Merriman v. Walton , 856 F.2d 1333 (9th Cir.1988) (affirming district court's denial of defendant's motion for summary judgment on qualified immunity grounds, finding a reasonable police officer would have made further inquiry before making the warrantless arrest).
In some cases, however, further development of the record will be necessary.
In this case it was proper for the court to require further development of the facts to determine whether the secret service reasonably could have interpreted the letter as violating 871 .
Both the qualified immunity doctrine and 871 invoke an objective standard.
As the court stated in Anderson , 107 S.Ct. at 3140 , the question to be answered under the qualified immunity doctrine is not whether the officer subjectively acted in good faith, but whether a reasonable officer could have believed he had probable cause to search a residence or to arrest.
Likewise, violation of 18 U.S.C. 871 turns not on whether the individual actually intended to harm the president, but whether a reasonable person would interpret the words used as a threat.
This court has construed the willfulness requirement of the statute as requiring "only that the defendant intentionally make a statement in a context or under such circumstances wherein a reasonable person would foresee that the statement would be interpreted by those to whom the maker communicat es the statement as a serious expression of an intention to inflict bodily harm upon the President " Roy , 416 F.2d at 877 (emphasis added).
Summary judgment is mandated "against a party who fails to make a showing sufficient to establish the existence of an element essential to that party's case, and on which that party will bear the burden of proof at trial."
Celotex Corp. v. Catrett , 477 U.S. 317, 322 , 106 S.Ct. 2548, 2552 , 91 L.Ed.2d 265 (1986).
Viewing the letter in the context in which it was delivered and evaluating it in light of these objective standards, the defendants failed to meet their burden of proving that a reasonable Secret Service officer could interpret this letter and the attendant circumstances to constitute a serious threat.
Hunter and Jordan's allegations that they had a reasonable belief that probable cause existed to arrest Bryant for threatening the life of the President was based on Bryant's admission that he wrote and delivered a letter which contained references to assassination attempts directed at Reagan, that Reagan occasionally visited the Los Angeles area, and that, based on their training and experience as Secret Service agents, they believed "Mr. Image" could be a pseudonym for Bryant.
Even accepting the "alter ego" theory that by warning what Mr. Image was going to do, Mr. Bryant was in fact communicating what he himself planned to do, the letter read in its entirety does not appear to make a threat against the president.
Most of the letter does not even talk about President Reagan.
A more reasonable interpretation of the letter might be that Bryant was trying to convince people of the danger Mr. Image and the conspiracy posed rather than that Bryant was speaking through Mr. Image.
The fact that Mr. Image appears to be someone of whom Mr. Bryant disapproves appears to cut against the alter ego theory.
Rather, Mr. Image is part of the evil forces that are keeping black men, including Bryant oppressed.
Additionally, there was absolutely nothing in the surrounding circumstances to suggest a different reading of the letter.
Rather, a man making vague and disjointed statements and odd gestures was wandering around the USC campus handing out a weird letter (or tract) addressed to no one in particular, which he wanted delivered to university officials.
The defendants simply have not sustained the burden of proving their affirmative defense.
It appears from the record that no discovery has taken place.
Further development of the record pre-trial or during trial may establish information that the secret service agents possessed that made them believe that Bryant's letter should be interpreted as a serious threat against the president.
If further development of the record occurs prior to trial, it is possible that renewal of defendants' motion for summary judgment at a later date might be appropriate.
Our remand for further proceedings does not foreclose the defendants presenting additional information that might establish that a reasonable officer could interpret the letter and the surrounding circumstances to constitute probable cause for arresting Bryant for violating 871 .
Information, for instance, about what knowledge Secret Service officers possess as a result of their professional training about communications by thought disordered persons as well as any information they may have possessed about Bryant may be necessary in order to resolve the "objective (albeit fact-specific) question whether a reasonable officer could have believed [Bryant's arrest] to be lawful in light of clearly established law and the information the searching officers possessed."
Anderson , 107 S.Ct. at 3040 .
As the Court instructed in Anderson , " the determination whether it was objectively legally reasonable to conclude that a given search was supported by probable cause or exigent circumstances will often require examination of the information possessed by the searching officials."
Id. at 3040 .
We are mindful that the purpose of qualified immunity is to prevent the disruption of effective government that can result from forcing officials to respond to broad discovery and to go to trial.
As courts have noted, however, this risk is of most concern where the subjective intent of the officials is at issue.
Harlow v. Fitzgerald , 457 U.S. 800 , 102 S.Ct. 2727 , 73 L.Ed.2d 396 (1982) (restricting the "subjective aspect" of the qualified immunity defense because of the substantial costs that attend the litigation of the subjective good faith of the government official).
Where the only question presented to the factfinder is the reasonable interpretation of a letter and the knowledge the Secret Service officers possessed, that risk is considerably and significantly less.
The court in Anderson left open the possibility for district court judges initially to limit the scope of discovery to facts upon which the immunity determination turns.
In affirming the district court's denial of summary judgment at this point in the proceedings we emphasize that the proper inquiry is not whether there was probable cause, but rather whether the secret service agents reasonably could have believed that there was.
Qualified immunity doctrine embraces the possibility that government officers will make errors of judgment that are not unreasonable.
Further, the inquiry is not whether it was reasonable to believe that Bryant would actually harm the president, but whether it was reasonable to believe that he had issued a threat to harm him. 4 Therefore, the proper factual inquiry is not whether the agents reasonably believed Bryant intended to kill or actually could have assassinated Reagan, but solely whether the agents reasonably believed he had issued a threat.
III.
In light of the possibility that at some point in the proceedings it may be determined that the officers reasonably believed they had probable cause to arrest, we address a second issue this case presents: whether the law was clearly established as of May 3, 1985, that a warrantless arrest inside an arrestee's residence violated the warrant requirement of the Fourth Amendment, where the arrestee had consented to the agents' entry into the residence.
5 We conclude that the law was not clearly established.
In fact the relevant case law strongly suggested that the officers could have believed that their warrantless arrest was lawful so long as they had probable cause and consent to enter the residence.
In Payton v. New York , 445 U.S. 573 , 100 S.Ct. 1371 , 63 L.Ed.2d 639 (1980), the Supreme Court held that "the Fourth Amendment prohibits the police from making a warrantless and nonconsensual entry into a suspect's home in order to make a routine felony arrest."
Id. at 576 , 100 S.Ct. at 1375 (emphasis added).
Similarly, this court stated in dicta in United States v. Gray , 626 F.2d 102 (9th Cir.1980), "The existence of probable cause to arrest, however, does not justify entering a suspect's home without either consent or a warrant."
Id. at 105 (emphasis added).
Decisions from other circuits available in early 1985 indicate a trend in favor of upholding warrantless arrests following consensual entries.
See, e.g. , Augustine v. Doe , 740 F.2d 322, 325 (5th Cir.1984) (consent to entry is assumed to be sufficient to permit warrantless arrest) (dicta); United States v. Briley , 726 F.2d 1301, 1303 (8th Cir.1984) ("valid and voluntary consent may be followed by a warrantless in-home arrest"); United States v. White , 660 F.2d 1178, 1182-83 (7th Cir.1981) (consent, even if obtained by deceit, can justify a subsequent warrantless arrest, at least where entry is not obtained solely for the purpose of arresting suspect).
Given the state of authority in 1985, appellants are correct that the law did not clearly establish that the agents needed a warrant to arrest Bryant after he consented to entry into his home, so long as probable cause existed.
Since there is no factual dispute over Bryant's consent to entry, appellants are entitled to qualified immunity on this issue.
CONCLUSION The decision of the district court denying defendants' motion for summary judgment on qualified immunity grounds on the state of the record at this time is AFFIRMED.
