 NOONAN , Circuit Judge: Nineteen states and numerous private parties brought antitrust suits against the defendants named above.
These suits were consolidated in the district court and were ultimately dismissed.
The plaintiffs appeal.
We reverse the district court and remand.
FACTUAL BACKGROUND The undisputed facts are set out by the district court in In re Insurance Antitrust Litigation , 723 F.Supp.
464, 468-70 (N.D.Cal.1989).
We summarize: Commercial general liability insurance (CGL) protects the insured against the risk of liability to third parties for bodily injury or property damage.
It is purchased by businesses, nonprofit entities, and governmental units.
Defendants Hartford Fire Insurance Company (Hartford), Allstate Insurance Company (Allstate), Aetna Casualty and Surety Company (Aetna), and CIGNA Corporation (CIGNA) are sellers of CGL.
In distinction from these primary insurers, there are reinsurers to whom the primary insurers turn to share their risk.
The terms and availability of reinsurance directly affect the terms and availability of primary insurance.
In turn, retrocessional insurance--insurance for reinsurers--has an impact on the terms of reinsurance and primary insurance.
The defendant reinsurers in this case are domestic- e.g. , General Reinsurance Corporation (General Re)--and also foreign.
The foreign defendant companies include one Swiss corporation, Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company (Winterthur); and six "London Company Market" corporations, all of them subsidiaries of American corporations: Terra Nova Insurance Co., Ltd. (Terra Nova); Unionamerica Insurance Co., Ltd. (Unionamerica); Continental Reinsurance Co., (U.K.)
Ltd. (Continental Re); Excess Insurance Group, Ltd. (Excess); Kemper Reinsurance London, Ltd. (Kemper Re); and CNA Re (U.K.)
Ltd. Reinsurance is arranged by specialized brokers and underwriters.
Much reinsurance is done by syndicates doing business through Lloyd's of London.
A variety of defendants here are underwriters for these reinsurance syndicates- e.g. , Merrett Underwriting Agencies Management, Ltd. (Merrett) and Three Quays Underwriting Management Ltd. (Three Quays).
Thomas A. Greene and Co., Inc. (Greene) is an American reinsurance broker, a defendant here.
Ballantyne, McKean and Sullivan, Ltd. (Ballantyne) and R.K.
Carvill & Co., Ltd., (Carvill) are London reinsurance brokers, defendants here.
There are also individual defendants associated with reinsurance- e.g. , Peter North Miller, the chairman of the Council of Lloyd's, its governing body; and Robin A.G.
Jackson, chief underwriter for Merrett.
Two insurance associations are also defendants.
One is Reinsurance Association of America (RAA), which principally engages in lobbying.
The other is the Insurance Service Office (ISO).
ISO has a key role in the regulation of insurance by the several states.
Formed in 1971 by the merger of eleven insurance rating bureaus, ISO is an association of over fourteen hundred property and casualty insurers.
It develops standard forms of policies.
It collects statistical data and estimates risks relevant to the forms.
In those states where regulators formally approve the forms, ISO presents the forms for approval.
In 1984, Hartford expressed its dissatisfaction with the standard ISO form for CGL insurance.
In particular, Hartford was displeased with the way the form insured against "occurrences" of liability during the life of the policy.
Such insurance had "a long tail," i.e. , years after the policy had expired, a claim might be made upon it for an occurrence during the life of the policy.
Hartford wanted a "claims made" form to replace the "occurrences" form.
Under a "claims made" form only claims made during the life of the policy would be paid.
Hartford also objected to coverage of liability for accidental pollution in the standard CGL form.
Led by Hartford, the defendant primary insurers exerted concerted pressure on ISO to get it to withdraw its form for CGL insurance.
In June 1984 Hartford persuaded major American reinsurers to agree to boycott the ISO form.
Hartford, Aetna, Allstate and CIGNA then joined forces to persuade key underwriters at Lloyd's to agree to boycott the form.
The defendants used reinsurance brokers to convey their message.
Leading underwriters in London responded to the American request by threatening a boycott of insurance written on the form.
ISO began to retreat.
In September 1984 ISO agreed to the unprecedented presence of domestic and foreign reinsurers at its executive committee meeting of September 20, 1984.
Four reinsurance underwriters from Lloyd's conveyed their insistence on Hartford's terms.
Change the form or get no reinsurance was their theme.
ISO responded by eliminating accidental pollution coverage and by approving a claims made form with a date after which claims could not be filed.
ISO also continued to offer a CGL occurrence form.
The reinsurance defendants continued to press for elimination of the occurrence form.
They announced, publicly and privately, that there would be no reinsurance for primary insurers writing on the occurrence form, and they refused to renew long-standing reinsurance treaties with primary insurers in the United States unless they agreed to abandon the occurrence form.
As a result of the reinsurers' actions, primary insurers were precluded from selling long tail insurance and also from selling accidental pollution insurance.
Whether these varieties of insurance disappeared entirely is not clear; what is alleged is that their availability was substantially diminished.
In most states where a regulatory state agency approved insurance forms, ISO obtained approval of its new CGL form.
Thereafter, ISO withdrew its data collection and risk-estimation support for the pre-1984 form.
In late 1985 Hartford and Aetna took the lead in urging ISO to develop standard forms for two other types of CGL insurance: umbrella and excess.
With the cooperation of Merrett, Three Quays and Allstate, these standard forms were prepared and approved by ISO.
London reinsurers including Unionamerica, Terra Nova, Excess, Kemper Re and Continental Re, plus the Lloyd's underwriters Merrett and Edwards and Payne agreed to boycott reinsurance and insurance policies for United States property seepage and pollution exposures.
The agreement is memorialized in the "Non Marine London Market Agreement 1987," signed by over forty retrocessional reinsurers at Lloyd's and the London Company Market.
The parties to the agreement agreed to accept retrocessional reinsurance only from reinsurers who signed a letter of intent stating the following: The effect of this agreement was to deny insurance consumers in the United States property coverage for seepage and pollution.
