 BECKER, Circuit Judge.
This is a petition for review of a May 26, 1992 final order of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission dismissing a notice of contest, affirming a citation, and assessing a penalty under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, 29 U.S.C. 651-678 (1988 & Supp. II 1990) (R.39).
The question on appeal is whether the Commission abused its discretion by dismissing an employer's notice of contest in an Occupational Safety and Health Act enforcement proceeding because the employer disregarded several discovery orders.
1 Petitioner McManus Decking, Inc. (McManus) is a New Jersey corporation engaged in steel deck installation.
In June 1991, The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) inspected a construction site in Ridgefield Park, New Jersey, where McManus was working on the construction of a ten-story structural steel building.
Following the inspection, OSHA issued a citation to McManus alleging violations of two fall protection standards.
Item 1 of the citation alleged a violation of 29 C.F.R. 1926.105(a) 2 for failing to provide safety nets, where the use of other safety devices are impractical, to protect employees walking on perimeter steel at heights above 25 feet from a fall hazard.
Item 2 of the citation alleged a violation of 29 C.F.R. 1926.500(b)(2) 3 for failing to provide guardrails to protect employees from a fall hazard around temporary ladderway floor openings.
The citation sought immediate abatement of the alleged violations and proposed a $2,000 penalty.
McManus contested the citation and proposed penalty, and proceedings were instituted before the Commission.
A series of procedural developments followed which were discussed at length at oral argument, and hence need not be recounted here.
The short of it is that a number of McManus’ defenses were stricken for lack of sufficiently definite statement, and then, because of McManus; dilatoriness in responding to certain discovery requests and non-compliance with other requests, the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) dismissed the notice of contest, affirmed the citation, and assessed a $2,000 penalty.
The ALJ's rationale was that McManus had demonstrated “a clear disregard of [the discovery] orders and a flagrant abuse of the discovery process.“ On April 17, 1992, the ALJ denied McManus’ motion for reconsideration, concluding that McManus “chose to ignore“ the orders to produce documents.
In reviewing enforcement actions brought under the Act, we must affirm the Commission's findings of fact if they are “supported by substantial evidence on the record as a whole .
.
.
.“ 29 U.S.C. 660(a) .
With regard to nonfactual determinations, we must affirm unless the Commission's determinations are “arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law.“ 5 U.S.C. 706(2)(A) ; Atlantic & Gulf Stevedores, Inc. v. OSHRC , 534 F.2d 541 , 547 [ 4 OSHC 1061 ] (3d Cir. 1976).
More generally, we review dismissals for failure to comply with discovery orders for abuse of discretion.
National Hockey League v. Metropolitan Hockey Club, Inc ., 427 U.S. 639 , 642 (1976); accord Seattle Corp., 15 O.S.H.
Cas. (BNA) 1130, 1134 (Rev. Comm'n 1991).
Commission Rule 52(e) authorizes the imposition of the same sanctions available under Fed.R.Civ.P. 37 when a party disobeys an order compelling discovery.
29 C.F.R. 2200.52(e) .
The most severe of these sanctions is dismissal.
The Commission concedes that the formulation that this court adopted for evaluating Rule 37 dismissals in Poulis v. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co., 747 F.2d 863 , 868 (3d Cir. 1984), is applicable to the case at bar.
In Poulis , we required the balancing of the following factors: (1) the extent of the party's personal responsibility; (2) the prejudice to the adversary caused by the failure to meet scheduling orders and respond to discovery; (3) a history of dilatoriness; (4) whether the conduct of the party or the attorney was willful or in bad faith; (5) the effectiveness of sanctions other than dismissal, which entails an analysis of alternative sanctions; and (6) the meritoriousness of the claim or defense.
Id .
(original emphasis omitted).
A number of the Poulis factors are not applicable here.
There is no allegation that McManus had any personal responsibility.
Despite the contentions of the Commission, we find no significant prejudice.
And there is no suggestion that Mr. Craner McManus’ attorney, acted wilfully or in bad faith.
What the case turns on, then, are the other Poulis factors.
There is no doubt that McManus was dilatory in its response to discovery requests, despite orders to produce.
Mr. Craner candidly acknowledged to the court that this was so and that he was personally responsible.
He explained that the responses were due at a time when he was under inordinate and unprecedented pressure due to other professional commitments in various forums.
With respect to the non-production of documents, Mr. Craner represented that some of the requested documents simply did not exist, that others were privileged, and that at least one was faxed, by him, to opposing counsel, though it is clear that counsel did not receive it.
While Mr. Craner's explanation does not provide a sufficient excuse, in the absence of excessive delay and significant prejudice to respondent, we might be inclined to overturn the sanction.
However, the remaining Poulis factors prevent us from doing so. More precisely, we conclude that McManus has shown no likelihood that it will prevail on the merits of its defense.
4 Additionally, given the paucity of remedies available to the Commission, we cannot say that an adequate lesser sanction was available.
In short, a remand would serve no apparent purpose.
Under these circumstances, we cannot say that the Commission acted arbitrarily or capriciously, or that it abused its discretion, in dismissing the notice of contest, affirming the citation, and assessing the penalty.
The Petition for Review will therefore be denied.
