 RENDELL, Circuit Judge.
Manoj Nijhawan appeals from the determination of the Board of Immigration Appeals ("BIA") that he had committed an aggravated felony and was thus removable under 8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(43)(M)(i) because his conspiracy conviction constituted an offense involving fraud or deceit in which the loss to the victims exceeded $10,000.
Nijhawan challenges both aspects of this finding, the "involving fraud" prong as well as the "loss" aspect.
As to the latter, he contends that, in order to satisfy the qualifying language, the loss amount had to have been adjudicated as part of his conviction, and was not.
We reject both challenges and will proceed to address each in turn.
The indictment involved a scheme by individuals who, it was alleged, set out to deprive their victims, major banks, of "hundreds of millions of dollars."
A.R.
229.
Through a series of misrepresentations, the banks were induced to make a number of loans to the defendants' companies, among them Allied Deals, Inc. Nijhawan, who was the Deputy General Manager of Allied Deals, Inc., was listed in Count 1, the overall conspiracy count that contained the general loss allegation as to the entire fraud scheme and involved conspiracy to commit bank fraud, mail fraud, and wire fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. 371 , and in Count 30, which alleged conspiracy to commit money laundering in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1956 (h).
The remaining counts were fraud counts implicating one or more of the other defendants in specific fraudulent loans ranging from $163,441 to $2,568,526.
The case was tried before a jury, which convicted Nijhawan of all of the counts against him in the indictment.
The jury was not asked to, nor did it, determine the amount of the loss attributable to any defendant.
Nijhawan entered into a stipulation for sentencing purposes in which he agreed that, "because the loss from the offense exceeds $100 million, the offense level is increased 26 levels."
A.R.
264.
In entering the judgment of conviction, the trial judge filled in the space for "loss" with the amount "$683,632,800.23."
A.R.
281.
The form footnoted the fact that "findings for the total amount of losses are required under Chapters 109A, 110, 110A, and 113A of Title 18."
A.R.
281.
Nijhawan was sentenced to 41 months of imprisonment and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $683,632,800.23.
No appeal was taken.
While Nijhawan was serving his sentence, he was charged with removability under 8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(43)(D) for conviction of a money laundering offense under 18 U.S.C. 1956 for which the amount laundered exceeded $10,000 [**2] and under 8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(43)(M)(i) for conviction of a crime involving fraud or deceit in which loss to the victims exceeded $10,000.
The IJ sustained both charges, relying primarily on the 1101(a)(43)(D) charge, and entered an order of removal on February 22, 2006.
On appeal, the BIA rested its decision solely on the 8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(43)(M)(i) charge.
A.R.
2 ("We will affirm the decision of the Immigration Judge insofar as he found the respondent removable as an alien convicted of an aggravated felony as defined in sections 101(a)(43) (M)(i) and (U) of the Immigration and Nationality Act").
The BIA rejected Nijhawan's argument that fraud in the Immigration and Nationality Act ("INA") should be congruent with the common law meaning of the term.
As to the loss determination, the BIA agreed that loss was not a necessary element of the offense for which he was convicted, noting that the loss requirement "was used as a qualifier, in a way similar to length of sentence provisions in other aggravated felony subsections."
A.R.
4 (citing Singh v. Ashcroft , 383 F.3d 144 , 161 (3d Cir. 2004)).
It reasoned that, although the jury had not found a specific dollar amount in rendering its guilty verdict, the IJ could properly find loss based on the stipulation of facts for sentencing and the judgment of conviction stating that the loss involved is $683,632,800.23, jointly and severally.
A.R.
4-5.
The BIA held that the stipulation, judgment of conviction, and restitution order were "sufficient to establish that the respondent's conviction renders him removable."
A.R.
5.
Nijhawan timely filed a petition for review, appealing the BIA's decision.
[fn1] On appeal, Nijhawan argues (1) that his offense of conviction does not involve fraud or deceit as those terms are used in the INA; and (2) that his conviction did not establish that loss to his victims exceeded $10,000.
1.
Did the offense "involve fraud" Nijhawan was convicted of conspiracy to commit fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. 371 .
The INA provision under which Nijhawan was charged with removability provides: (43) The term "aggravated felony" means — (M) an offense that — (i) involves fraud or deceit in which the loss to the victim or victims exceeds $10,000.
8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(43)(M)(i).
Nijhawan contends that the "fraud" and "deceit" in this provision should be given their common law meaning, which requires actual reliance upon allegedly fraudulent statements made and harm from that reliance.
Because actual reliance and harm from reliance are not necessary legal elements of the federal fraud statutes under which he was convicted, Neder v. United States , 527 U.S. 1 , 119 S.Ct. 1827 , 144 L.Ed.2d 35 (1999), his conviction, Nijhawan urges, was not an aggravated felony.
We can easily dispense with this argument.
In Valansi v. Ashcroft , we examined the very section of the INA at issue here and interpreted the language broadly.
278 F.3d 203 (3d Cir. 2002).
We said: we determine whether the phrase "offense that-involves fraud or deceit" has a plain meaning.
The word "involves" means "to have within or as part of itself' or "to require as a necessary accompaniment."
Webster's Third New International Dictionary at 1191.
Thus, an offense that "involves fraud or deceit" is most naturally interpreted as an offense that includes fraud [**3] or deceit as a necessary component or element.
It does not require, however, that the elements of the offense be coextensive with the crime of fraud.
Id. at 209-10 (emphasis added); see also Bobb v. Att'y Gen. , 458 F.3d 213 , 218 (3d Cir. 2006) ("[W]e have held that subsection (M)(i) covers all offenses that have as an essential element an intent to defraud or deceive.
"); Ki Se Lee v. Ashcroft , 368 F.3d 218 , 222 (3d Cir. 2004) ("Subsection (M)(i) has a general application — the gamut of state and federal crimes involving fraud and deceit causing losses over $10,000.").
Other circuits have followed our lead.
See Conteh v. Gonzales , 461 F.3d 45 , 59 (1st Cir. 2006) ("We agree with the Third Circuit.
.
.
.
An offense with a scienter element of either intent to defraud or intent to deceive categorically qualifies as an offense involving fraud or deceit.
"); James v. Gonzales , 464 F.3d 505 , 508 (5th Cir. 2006) (noting that "[w]e recognize that `[w]hether an offense "involves" fraud is a broader question than whether it constitutes fraud'" and concluding that "[t]he plain language of 1344 .
.
.
provides that a violation of either subsection necessarily entails fraud or deceit").
Here, the criminal statutes under which Nijhawan was convicted require that fraud or false or fraudulent pretenses be employed (mail fraud, wire fraud, and bank fraud).
They therefore "involve" fraud or deceit for the purposes of the INA.
Clearly, Nijhawan's arguments to the contrary are foreclosed by our precedent.
2.
Was Nijhawan convicted of a fraud "in which the loss to the victims exceeded $10,000"?
Nijhawan was convicted of conspiracy to commit fraud and therefore is subject to removal under 8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(43)(U), which provides that "an attempt or conspiracy to commit" another aggravated felony constitutes an aggravated felony.
The precise aggravated felony provision at issue here defines an aggravated felony as an offense that "involves fraud or deceit in which the loss to the victim or victims exceeds $10,000."
8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(43)(M)(i).
As we have noted above, the "involves fraud" language of this provision permits the range of actual offenses to be broader than common law fraud.
The issue remains, however, whether the language "in which the loss to the victim or victims exceeds $10,000" requires that a jury have actually convicted defendant of a loss in excess of $10,000, as Nijhawan contends, or permits resort to the prior criminal record in order to determine what loss was in fact occasioned by or attributable to the offense of conviction.
We conclude that the language of 101(a)(43)(M)(i) does not require a jury to have determined that there was a loss in excess of $10,000.
To read the "in which" language as requiring that what follows must have been proven as an element of the crime would bring about an absurd result.
Clearly, the phrase is, as the BIA found, qualifying and does not constitute a provable element.
For example, what if the language were "in which the victims were elderly" or "in which three or more banks suffered losses"?
Would the facts of these qualifying phrases have to have been proven as part of the offense?
We suggest not.
To hold to the contrary would essentially gut every deportability standard containing the "in which" or other analogous [**4] qualifying language, [fn2] for we cannot imagine previous convictions in which an aspect of the crime that is not an element has been proven by the jury.
To hold to the contrary would impose a totally impractical standard.
Notwithstanding our belief that reasonable minds could not differ on this issue, we acknowledge that other courts of appeals, and, indeed, Judge Stapleton, have reached a contrary conclusion.
They have done so based upon the very argument that Nijhawan makes here, namely that the Taylor v. United States , 495 U.S. 575 , 110 S.Ct. 2143 , 109 L.Ed.2d 607 (1990), and Shepard v. United States , 544 U.S. 13 , 125 S.Ct. 1254 , 161 L.Ed.2d 205 (2005), line of cases require it.
We suggest that this reasoning is flawed.
The "in which" qualifying language renders the analysis under 10 1(a)(43)(M)(i) different from the approach in Taylor and Shepard.
In fact, we have already so stated.
In Singh v. Ashcroft , Judge Becker explored the contours of the applicability of the Taylor-Shepard approach to the concept of "aggravated felony" in the INA.
383 F.3d 144 (3d Cir. 2004).
Both Taylor and Shepard involved the question of which court documents or records can be consulted to determine whether a prior conviction qualifies for a sentencing enhancement in a subsequent criminal proceeding.
[fn3] These cases set forth what have become known as the "categorical" and "modified categorical" approaches to determining the crime of which the defendant was previously convicted.
The categorical approach looks at the statute of conviction, comparing elements of the offense to the requirements of the enhancing provision.
When the formal categorical approach of Taylor does not yield an answer, two different types of inquiry may be called into play.
Judge Becker reviewed our jurisprudence and reasoned as follows regarding the precise issue before us: Our jurisprudence in the aggravated felony area — twelve cases in all — is not a seamless web.
In order to resolve the appeal we have found it necessary to analyze and synthesize this body of case law, and we do so at length As will appear, a pattern emerges, causing us to conclude that, while the formal categorical approach of Taylor presumptively applies in assessing whether an alien has been convicted of an aggravated felony, in some cases the language of the particular subsection of 8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(43) at issue will invite inquiry into the underlying facts of the case, and in some cases the disjunctive phrasing of the statute of conviction will similarly invite inquiry into the specifics of the conviction.
Singh , 383 F.3d at 148 (emphasis added).
Judge Becker thus correctly drew the crucial distinction between deportability language that, on the one hand, calls Taylor and Shepard into play, inviting inquiry into the specifics of the conviction, and, on the other, is essentially qualifying language not demanding a categorical analysis, but requiring, instead, inquiry into the underlying facts.
Cases in which a court has recourse to the modified categorical approach generally involve "divisible" statutes, where the prior criminal offense, by statute, includes a wide range of activity but the requisite enhancing provision — such as violent [**5] felony or aggravated felony — requires one or more particular elements that may or may not have been found as part of the conviction.
The modified categorical approach entails scrutiny of the nature of the conviction itself and those elements that the jury necessarily found through an examination of judicial record evidence.
If the jury did not necessarily find that element, the "conviction" will not fit within the enhanced category.
Taylor-Shepard is thus implicated.
On the other hand, the instant enhancing provision is different.
The language does not state "convicted of a $10,000 fraud."
Rather, it reads, "involves fraud or deceit in which the loss to the victim or victims exceeds $10,000."
8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(43)(M)(i).
As Judge Becker specifically stated, the provision before us here invites inquiry into "the underlying facts of the case." There is no issue here regarding which crime was committed by the petitioner under a divisible statute, in which event we would be limited to an examination of the "specifics of the conviction" and would employ the modified categorical approach of Taylor and Shepard.
Addressing the analysis required under the very provision at issue here, Judge Becker made clear that: [A] departure from the formal categorical approach seems warranted when the terms of the statute invite inquiry into the facts underlying the conviction at issue.
The qualifier "in which the loss to the victim or victims exceeds $10,000" in 8 U.S.C. 1101 (a)(43)(M)(i) is the prototypical example — it expresses such a specificity of fact that it almost begs an adjudicator to examine the facts at issue.
This principle explains our holdings in Nugent and Munroe.
Another example would be an enumerating statute specifying crimes "committed within the last two years."
Such a statute could not be read to cover only crimes which have "within the last two years" as an element; instead a court would read "within the last two years" as a limiting provision on crimes that would otherwise qualify.
In contrast, cases interpreting relatively unitary categorical concepts — like "forgery" ( Drakes ), "burglary" ( Taylor itself) or "crime of violence" ( Francis and Bovkun ) — do not look to underlying facts because the enumerating statute does not invite any such inquiry.
Likewise, the hypothetical federal felony trilogy ( Steele, Gerber , and Wilson ) asks only whether the elements of a federal criminal statute can be satisfied by reference to the actual statute of conviction; this presents no invitation to depart from Taylor's formal categorical approach and examine the underlying facts.
383 F.3d at 161 (emphasis added).
Accordingly, our Court's precedent directs us to "examine the facts at issue," because the amount of loss is a "qualifier," not an element.
[fn4] Our case law has consistently treated the amount of loss as a qualifier rather than an element of the crime.
In 2003 in Munroe v. Ashcroft , we did not require that the defendant have specifically pled guilty to a loss amount.
353 F.3d 225 (3d Cir. 2003).
To the contrary, we stated that "the indictment alleged that the loss exceeded this amount, and Munroe does not claim that when he [**6] pled guilty, he admitted to only a lesser loss.
Nor is there any suggestion that the Superior Court ever found that the amount of the loss was less than $10,000."
Id. at 227 .
For the purposes of 101(a)(43)(M)(i) , we looked to the indictment, which contained an averment as to loss in excess of $10,000, rather than an amended restitution order, which reduced defendant's restitution to $9,999.
[fn5] However, we decided that the amount of loss in a restitution order, which by its nature is neither found by a jury nor specifically pled to by a defendant, could be considered.
Id. at 227 ("[T]he amount of restitution ordered as a result of a conviction may be helpful to a court's inquiry into the amount of loss to the victim if the plea agreement or indictment is unclear as to the loss suffered.").
Nijhawan contends that more recent authority, namely, our opinion in Alaka v. Attorney General , 456 F.3d 88 (3d Cir. 2006), contradicts Singh and Munroe and requires conviction of the requisite amount of loss.
In Alaka , the total loss averred in the indictment as to the overall scheme exceeded $10,000.
However, Alaka pled guilty only to a single count in a plea agreement that referenced a loss to the victim of $4,716.68.
Id. at 92 .
The other counts against Alaka were dismissed.
We concluded that Alaka's offense did not qualify for treatment as an aggravated felony.
Id. at 108 .
Nijhawan urges that Alaka stands for the proposition that the loss amount is an element to which the defendant must plead, or of which the defendant must be convicted.
We disagree.
To the contrary, Alaka stands for the unremarkable proposition that one who has admitted to a loss of less than $10,000 as part of a guilty plea cannot later be said to have been convicted of an offense involving fraud in which the loss to the victim exceeds $10,000.
Where there is a plea agreement that sets forth the loss it is to that agreement we must look to determine the loss.
Alaka does not require that the defendant plead to a specific loss amount; it requires only that, if he has, that amount is controlling.
Alaka does not limit the inquiry if no loss is stated in a plea agreement or submitted to a jury.
In fact, in Alaka we concluded that "the IJ properly considered the factual finding in the sentencing report."
Id. at 105 , 106.
Alaka requires only that we "focus narrowly on the loss amounts that are particularly tethered to the convicted counts."
Id. at 107 (quoting Knutsen v. Gonzales , 429 F.3d 733 , 739-40 (7th Cir. 2005)).
The only real issue in the case before us is whether the "tether" of a loss in excess of $10,000 to Count 1, the count of conviction, is sufficiently strong.
We have not previously opined as to the nature of the nexus required, or the breadth of the inquiry into the facts as authorized by Singh , and, here, we need only determine whether the record is sufficiently clear that the loss resulting from the convicted conduct exceeds $10,000.
Here, Count 1 of the indictment charged a conspiracy, alleging that defendants "engaged in a fraudulent scheme to obtain millions of dollars in loans" from the victim banks and setting forth the scheme and roles of the co-conspirators.
Nijhawan was convicted [**7] of Count 1, but the jury did not, and was not asked to, determine the amount of loss to the victims.
However, in a stipulation for the purposes of sentencing on Count 1, Nijhawan agreed that the loss exceeded $100 million.
And, in entering the judgment of conviction, the District Court made a finding of "Total Loss" in the amount of $683,632,800.23.
As in Munroe , here we have no argument, let alone anything in the record, that Nijhawan was convicted of an offense involving less than $10,000.
This is not a case where the jury's findings contradict the restitution order or loss was calculated on the basis of uncharged or unconvicted conduct.
All the documents and admissions support a finding that the loss amounted to hundreds of millions of dollars.
We need not decide whether any of the "facts" here, standing alone, would suffice as a "tether," as we conclude that, taken together, the indictment, judgment of conviction, and stipulation provide clear and convincing evidence that the requisite loss was tied to Nijhawan's offense of conviction.
We note that we are not the only court of appeals to have viewed the inquiry into the record of conviction to permit examination of loss not specifically admitted in the plea colloquy or agreement or found by a jury as part of the conviction.
[fn6] The Court of Appeals for the First Circuit also has indicated that a court should look to loss occasioned by the conviction, rather than loss as an element found by the jury or explicitly incorporated in the plea agreement.
Conteh v. Gonzales , 461 F.3d 45 (1st Cir. 2006).
Exercising care in interpreting the "loss exceeds" language in 1101(a)(43)(M)(i) , the court recognized that "the distinction between conviction for and commission of an aggravated felony is an important one; because the BIA may not adjudicate guilt or mete out criminal punishment, it must base removal orders on convictions, not on conduct alone."
Id. at 56 .
Thus, the court found it improper for the BIA to rely on a narrative statement in the PSI report, but did approve the BIA's reliance on the indictment, which alleged specific losses exceeding $10,000, and the final judgment, which included a finding of loss and restitution order.
Id. at 59 ( quoting Shepard , 544 U.S. at 21 , 125 S.Ct. 1254 ).
As here, an indictment and judgment, indicating loss and restitution, were available and were a sufficiently reliable indication of the loss of which the petitioner had been convicted.
In Knutsen v. Gonzales , a case upon which we relied in Alaka , the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit similarly reasoned that "consistent with the statute .
.
.
the court should focus narrowly on the loss amounts that are particularly tethered to convicted counts alone."
429 F.3d 733 , 739-40 (7th Cir. 2005) (emphasis added).
In that case, the petitioner had pled guilty to one count of a multi-count indictment, which listed a loss amount less than $10,000; for the purposes of the Sentencing Guidelines, however, he entered into a stipulation with the government in which he acknowledged that "the total loss from the offense of conviction and relevant conduct exceeded $20,000."
Id. at 736 .
Because the stipulation included relevant [**8] conduct and was not limited to the loss connected to or caused by the offense of conviction, the court found that the IJ erred by relying on it, but did not require the plea colloquy to have included the specific loss.
Id. at 739 .
The loss was not sufficiently "tethered" to the offense of conviction so as to constitute clear and convincing evidence that the petitioner had been convicted of an aggravated felony under 1101(a)(43)(M)(i) .
The decision of the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit in Obasohan v. Attorney General further substantiates our interpretation of this provision.
479 F.3d 785 (11th Cir. 2007).
In that case, the petitioner had been ordered to pay restitution, due to fraudulent charges on other credit cards that were not the subject of the indictment or the plea agreement.
Id. at 789-90 .
The court found it particularly significant that the petitioner objected to the PSI's assertion of loss due to additional conduct and "therefore did not admit, adopt, or assent to the factual findings that formed the basis of the restitution order."
Id. at 790 .
Given that the restitution order was based entirely on other unconvicted conduct, was not admitted by the petitioner, and was the only evidence that such loss had occurred, the IJ could not find loss by clear and convincing evidence.
Id. at 790 (gathering cases and citing Knutsen, Munroe , and Conteh with approval).
A restitution order could be evidence of the loss amount, but only if it was "based on the conspiracy charge to which Obasohan pled guilty, □or on the overt acts to which Obasohan admitted by pleading guilty," not "on additional conduct that was alleged only in the PSI."
Id. at 789-90 .
We should note that neither we nor these other courts have abandoned the Taylor-Shepard approach.
Indeed, we still resort to it at the initial phase of our analysis because 101(a)(43)(M)(i) instructs us to decide whether the alien has been convicted of a crime involving fraud or deceit.
Employing the formal categorical approach and looking to the statute of conviction, we determined that Nijhawan's conviction involved fraud or deceit and thus was a proper predicate offense within the "aggravated felony" definition.
Once this conclusion is reached, our case law then requires an "inquiry into the underlying facts of the case" to ascertain whether the "in which" qualifying loss provision is satisfied.
Nijhawan urges that we should depart from our case law and follow those courts of appeals that have interpreted the loss requirement in INA 101(a)(43)(M)(i) in a more restrictive way.
In particular, he urges that we should adopt the reasoning of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which has set forth a rule that the loss requirement must be established by "facts actually and necessarily found beyond a reasonable doubt by a jury or judge in order to establish the elements of the offense, as indicated by a charging document or jury instructions."
Dulal-Whiteway v. U.S. Dep't of Homeland Sec. , 501 F.3d 116 , 131 (2d Cir. 2007).
[fn7] There, the court determined that, because restitution was not necessarily found by the jury, a restitution order was insufficient [**9] to establish that the fraud conviction was one "in which the loss to the victims exceeds $10,000."
Id. at 130 .
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit also applied the "modified categorical" approach to the loss requirement in Li v. Ashcroft and found that it was improper to rely on the charging document, which described specific loss amounts, and the judgment of conviction for those counts, because it had "in the record no jury instructions, verdict form, or other comparable document suggesting that the jury actually was called on to decide, for example, that Petitioner's false claims were for a particular amount."
389 F.3d 892 , 898 (9th Cir. 2004) (expressing no opinion however "as to whether a defendant's admission of a specific sentencing fact would suffice").
As we noted above, we conclude that this treatment of the qualifying language as setting forth an element of the offense is uncalled for and makes little sense.
While our dissenting colleague urges that express conviction of the loss amount will lend certainty and ease to the analysis, we do not think this justifies our embracing an interpretation of the language that will render the provision toothless.
Moreover, our case law clearly rejects the restrictive interpretation of INA 101(a)(43)(M)(i) 's loss requirement adopted by the Second Circuit in Dulal-Whiteway and the Ninth Circuit in Li.
Munroe, Singh , and Alaka make clear that the loss amount need not be found specifically by the jury or set forth in the plea agreement or colloquy.
[fn8] Rather, as we have said, the loss requirement invites further inquiry into the facts underlying the conviction, and that inquiry is satisfied if the amount of loss is sufficiently tethered to the fraud conviction.
Had our prior precedent not compelled our conclusion, we still would firmly disagree with the restrictive interpretation.
For, our decision actually fosters the principles the Second Circuit identified in Dulal-Whiteway and best comports with the text and purpose of the INA's aggravated felony provision.
In Dulal-Whiteway , the Second Circuit noted that the words of the INA provision render deportable one who has been convicted of an aggravated felony, not one who has committed an aggravated felony.
Id. at 132 .
We do not disagree with this and, much like the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit in Conteh , we endorse careful consideration of the record to determine whether it is sufficiently clear that the loss connected to the crime of conviction exceeded $10,000.
As Judge Becker noted in Singh , the specific words "in which the loss to the victims exceeds $10,000" suggest just such an inquiry into the facts underlying the conviction.
The requirement that we set forth today that the loss amount be sufficiently tied or tethered to the offense of conviction both responds to the Second Circuit's concern that a restitution order based upon conduct of which the defendant was not convicted should not be relied on, and does not arbitrarily cabin the inquiry.
[fn9] The difficulty in saving that the court will limit inquiry to the precise "record of conviction" [**10] used in the Armed Career Criminal context for purposes of determining loss under 101(a)(43)(M)(i) is made manifest in the decisions of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
That court appears to adopt the requirement that the petitioner had to have been convicted of the loss, but then looks beyond what the jury found in order to determine loss amount.
For example, in Ferreira v. Ashcroft , the court cited our decision in Munroe with approval and reasoned that there was no rule prohibiting immigration judges from looking to a restitution order to determine loss amount.
390 F.3d 1091 (9th Cir. 2004) (relying on Munroe and Chang v. INS , 307 F.3d 1185 (9th Cir. 2002)).
Although the court has insisted that it is using the modified categorical approach, it has actually engaged in a broader inquiry.
Our holding today is consistent with the different evidentiary standards used in criminal, sentencing, and immigration proceedings, respectively.
In Dulal , the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit criticized the approach we endorse because, it believed, it "would permit the government to order an alien removed in the absence of the clear, unequivocal and convincing evidence required by [immigration] law."
501 F.3d at 132 .
However, its holding raises the standard of proof to beyond a reasonable doubt while our holding actually adheres to the "clear and convincing" standard.
Accord Conteh , 461 F.3d at 56 (rejecting "the implicit proposition that the INA's use of the word "convicted" in 8 U.S.C. 1227 (a)(2)(A)(iii) elevates the government's burden in aggravated felony cases from clear and convincing evidence to proof beyond a reasonable doubt (that is, proof that facts were necessarily found by a criminal jury or admitted by the alien qua criminal defendant)").
Most fraud statutes, including the federal statutes at issue here, do not contain loss as an element or require that a jury find loss or a defendant plea to a specific loss amount.
As we noted above, insistence on loss as part of the conduct would render 1101(a)(43)(M)(i) largely inoperative, for rarely will a defendant be convicted of a fraud offense with loss as an element found by the jury or explicitly admitted to in a guilty plea.
Under the rule adopted in Dulal-Whiteway which the dissent embraces, a finding beyond a reasonable doubt would be required, not merely the allegation of a specific loss amount in a criminal indictment.
[fn10] A jury would have to be charged as to loss amount and make a specific and additional finding.
[fn11] Unlike the Second Circuit, we find no "`daunting' practical difficulties" associated with looking to a wider array of records that possess a high indicia of reliability.
It is well within the competence of a court to examine the record for clear and convincing evidence of loss caused by the conduct of conviction.
Indeed, we believe there are far greater practical difficulties inherent in attempting to bend the "modified categorical approach" of Taylor and Shepard to apply to a finding of the requisite minimum loss caused by fraud or deceit, which is rarely found by a jury or explicitly included in the plea agreement, because it is a qualifier, not an [**11] element of the offense.
Moreover, we should not raise an aspect of an immigration statute to the level of an element of a criminal offense, as the dissent urges, merely because requiring that it be a part of the conviction eases a court's decision-making process.
Accordingly, because the petitioner was previously convicted of conspiracy to commit "an offense that involves fraud or deceit in which the loss to the victim or victims exceeds $10,000," he committed an aggravated felony, and we will deny his petition for review.
